MTGR: Industrial-Scale Generative Recommendation Framework
in Meituan
Ruidong Han, Bin Yin, Shangyu Chen, He Jiang, Fei Jiang, Xiang Li, Chi Ma, Mincong Huang,
Xiaoguang Li, Chunzhen Jing, Yueming Han, Menglei Zhou, Lei Yu, Chuan Liu, Wei Lin∗
{hanruidong, yinbin05, chenshangyu03, jianghe06, jiangfei05, lixiang245, machi04, huangmincong, lixiaoguang12,
jingchunzhen, hanyueming02, zhoumenglei, yulei37, liuchuan11, linwei31}@meituan.com
Meituan
Beijing, China
Abstract
Scaling law has been extensively validated in many domains such as
natural language processing and computer vision. In the recommen-
dation system, recent work has adopted generative recommenda-
tions to achieve scalability, but their generative approaches require
abandoning the carefully constructed cross features of traditional
recommendation models. We found that this approach significantly
degrades model performance, and scaling up cannot compensate
for it at all. In this paper, we propose MTGR (Meituan Generative
Recommendation) to address this issue. MTGR is modeling based
on the HSTU [23] architecture and can retain the original deep
learning recommendation model (DLRM) features, including cross
features. Additionally, MTGR achieves training and inference accel-
eration through user-level compression to ensure efficient scaling.
We also propose Group-Layer Normalization (GLN) to enhance
the performance of encoding within different semantic spaces and
the dynamic masking strategy to avoid information leakage. We
further optimize the training frameworks, enabling support for our
models with 10 to 100 times computational complexity compared
to the DLRM, without significant cost increases. MTGR achieved
65x FLOPs for single-sample forward inference compared to the
DLRM model, resulting in the largest gain in nearly two years both
offline and online. This breakthrough was successfully deployed on
Meituan, the world’s largest food delivery platform, where it has
been handling the main traffic.
CCS Concepts
• Information systems →Recommendation systems.
Keywords
Scaling Law; Generative Recommendation
ACM Reference Format:
Ruidong Han, Bin Yin, Shangyu Chen, He Jiang, Fei Jiang, Xiang Li, Chi
Ma, Mincong Huang, Xiaoguang Li, Chunzhen Jing, Yueming Han, Menglei
∗Corresponding author.
Permission to make digital or hard copies of all or part of this work for personal or
classroom use is granted without fee provided that copies are not made or distributed
for profit or commercial advantage and that copies bear this notice and the full citation
on the first page. Copyrights for components of this work owned by others than the
author(s) must be honored. Abstracting with credit is permitted. To copy otherwise, or
republish, to post on servers or to redistribute to lists, requires prior specific permission
and/or a fee. Request permissions from permissions@acm.org.
CIKM ’25, Seoul, Republic of Korea
© 2025 Copyright held by the owner/author(s). Publication rights licensed to ACM.
ACM ISBN 979-8-4007-2040-6/2025/11
https://doi.org/10.1145/3746252.3761565
Zhou, Lei Yu, Chuan Liu, Wei Lin. 2025. MTGR: Industrial-Scale Generative
Recommendation Framework in Meituan. In Proceedings of the 34th ACM
International Conference on Information and Knowledge Management (CIKM
’25), November 10–14, 2025, Seoul, Republic of Korea. ACM, New York, NY,
USA, 8 pages. https://doi.org/10.1145/3746252.3761565
1
Introduction
Scaling law have been proven to apply to most deep learning tasks,
including language models[9], computer vision[14, 24], and infor-
mation retrieval[4]. Our work focuses on scaling up the ranking
model in industrial recommendation systems effectively. Under the
requirements of high QPS (Queries Per Second) and low latency in
industrial recommendation systems, the scaling of the model is usu-
ally limited by both the training cost and inference time. Currently,
the study on scaling ranking models can be divided into two types:
Deep Learning Recommendation Model (DLRM) and Generative
Recommendation Model (GRM). DLRM models individual user-item
pairs to learn the probability of interest for ranking and scales up
by developing more complex mappings. GRM organizes data by
token like natural language and performs next token prediction
through a transformer architecture.
In industrial recommendation systems, DLRM has been used for
nearly a decade, typically with inputs that include a large number
of well-designed handcrafted features such as cross features 1 to
improve model performance. However, DLRM has two significant
drawbacks when it comes to scaling: 1) with exponential growth of
user behavior, traditional DLRM cannot efficiently process entire
user behaviors, often resorting to sequence retrieval or designing
low-complexity modules for learning, which limits the model’s
learning capability [1, 15]. 2) scaling based on DLRM incurs approx-
imately linear costs in training and inference with the number of
candidates, making the expenses unbearably high.
For GRM, recent studies have pointed out its excellent scalability
[3, 23]. We identify two key factors: 1) GRM directly models the com-
plete chain of user behavior, which compresses multiple samples of
exposure under the same user into one. This significantly reduces
computational redundancy, while allowing end-to-end encoding of
longer sequence compared to DLRM; 2) GRM adopts a transformer
architecture with efficient attention computation[2, 23], enabling
the model’s training and inference to meet the requirements of in-
dustrial recommendation systems. However, GRM heavily relies on
next token prediction to model a complete user behavior sequence,
which requires removing cross features between candidates and the
1Cross features measure the interactions of multiple raw features, like the user’s
historical click-through rate for the target candidate
arXiv:2505.18654v4  [cs.IR]  22 Aug 2025

CIKM ’25, November 10–14, 2025, Seoul, Republic of Korea
Ruidong Han, Bin Yin, Shangyu Chen et al.
user. We found that excluding cross features severely damages the
model’s performance, and this degeneration cannot be compensated
by scaling up at all.
How can we build a ranking model that utilizes cross features to
ensure effectiveness while also possessing the scalability of GRM?
To address this problem, we propose the Meituan Generative Rec-
ommendation (MTGR). Compared to traditional DLRM and GRM,
MTGR utilizes the advantages and discards disadvantage of the
methods. MTGR maintains inputs feature consistent with tradi-
tional DLRM, including cross features. Specially, MTGR reorganizes
features by converting user and candidate features into different to-
kens, leading to a token sequence for efficient model scaling. Then
MTGR incorporates the cross feature in the candidate tokens and
learns with a discriminative loss.
MTGR employs the similar HSTU (Hierarchical Sequential Trans-
duction Units) architecture as used in [23] for modeling. In HSTU,
we propose Group-layer Normalization(GLN) to normalize differ-
ent types of token separately, enabling better modeling of multiple
heterogeneous information simultaneously. In addition, we propose
a dynamic masking strategy, where full-attention, auto-regressive
and visibility only to itself are used to ensure performance and
avoid information leakage.
Unlike the commonly used TensorFlow in the industry, MTGR
training framework is built based on TorchRec[8] and optimized
for computational efficiency. Specifically, to handle the real-time
insert/delete of sparse embedding entries, we employ dynamic hash
tables to replace static tables. To improve efficiency, we conduct
dynamic sequence balancing to address the computation load im-
balances among GPUs and adopt embedding ID de-duplication
alongside automatic table merging to accelerate embedding lookup.
We also incorporate implementation optimization including mixed
precision training and operator fusion. Compared to TorchRec, our
optimized framework improves training throughput by 1.6x – 2.4x
while achieving good scalability when running over 100 GPUs.
We validate the scalability of MTGR on a small-scale dataset.
Then, we design three models of varying sizes, which are trained
using following over six months of data, to verify the scaling law for
both offline and online performance. The large version, compared to
the DLRM baseline optimized over years, demonstrates 65x FLOPs
per sample for forward computation and increases the conversion
volumes by 1.22% and the CTR (Click-Through Rate) by 1.31% in our
scenarios. Meanwhile, the training cost remains unchanged and the
inference cost is reduced by 12%. MTGR-large has been deployed in
the Meituan take-away recommendation system, serving hundreds
of millions of users.
In summary, our contributions are summarized as follows:
• MTGR combines the advantages of DLRM and GRM, retain-
ing all the features of DLRM, including the cross feature,
while demonstrating excellent scalability as GRM.
• We propose Group-Layer Normalization and dynamic mask-
ing strategies to achieve better performance.
• We perform systematic optimizations on the TorchRec-based
MTGR training framework to enhance training performance.
• Both offline and online experiments were conducted to demon-
strate the power-law relationship between the performance
of MTGR and computational complexity, and its superiority
compared to DLRM.
2
Related Works
2.1
Deep Learning Recommendation Model
A classic DLRM structure typically includes many inputs such as
context (e.g. time, location), user profile (e.g. gender, age), user be-
havior sequences, and target item with many cross features. Two
particularly important modules in ranking model are behavior se-
quence processing and feature interactions learning. The behavior
sequence module[15, 17, 27] usually employs target attention mech-
anisms to capture the similarity between the historical behavior
of the users and the item to be estimated. The feature interactions
module[12, 18–20] is designed to capture interactions among differ-
ent features including user and item to produce the final prediction.
2.2
Scaling up Recommendation Model
Based on the different scaling modules in DLRM, there are two
distinct approaches. One approach is the scaling cross module, i.e.
scaling up the feature interactions module that integrates user and
item information. [25] introduces a stackable Wukong layer for
scaling up. [6] employ a multi-embedding strategy to address the
embedding collapse, thereby enhancing the model’s scalability. The
other approach is the scaling user module, where only the user
part is scaled up, making this approach more inference-friendly.
[7, 26] reduce online inference costs by scaling only user represen-
tations and caching or broadcasting them to different items that
will be estimated. [16, 22] design a pre-training method for user
representations, demonstrating scalability in downstream tasks.
The counterpart to DLRM is GRM. [23] validate the scaling law
through HSTU with scaling up to trillion-level parameters. [3] use
semantic coding to replace traditional ID representations, com-
bining DPO optimization with a transformer-based framework to
replace the cascaded learning framework with a unified generative
model.
3
Preliminary
3.1
Data Arrangement
Traditionally, for a user and the corresponding 𝐾candidates, the
𝑖-th sample for the user and 𝑖-th candidate pair can be represented
as D𝑖= [U, −→S , −→R, C𝑖, I𝑖]. Specifically, U = [U1, ..., U𝑁U] represents
the user’s profile feature (U𝑖), such as age, gender, etc. Each feature
U𝑖is a scalar, and 𝑁U represents the number of features used. −→S =
[S1, ..., S𝑁S] contains the sequence of items that have historically
been interacted with by the user. Each element in S𝑖= [s1, ..., s𝑁s]
represents an item, it is comprised by selected features (s𝑖) such as
the item’s ID, tag, average CTR on the item and etc. Similar to −→S , −→R
records the closet interaction to current request within a few hours
or a day. −→R represents user’s real-time actions and preference. It
shares the same features with −→S . C = [C1, ..., C𝑁C] comprises the
cross features between the user and the candidates. I = [I1, ..., I𝑁I]
contains the features used for candidates, such as item’s ID, tag,
and brand. I is candidate-dependent and shared for different users.

MTGR: Industrial-Scale Generative Recommendation Framework in Meituan
CIKM ’25, November 10–14, 2025, Seoul, Republic of Korea
Query
Query
age
gender
ctr
pv
ID
tag
brand
embedding lookup
Target Attention
Feat(seq)
Concatenation
logit
MLP
Feat(user)
Feat(cross)
Feat(candidate)
User
Seq
Cross
Candidiate
Emb(ID)
Emb(tag)
Emb(brand)
RT
ID
tag
brand
ID
tag
brand
Emb(age)
Emb(gender)
Emb(ID)
Emb(tag)
Emb(ctr)
Emb(ID)
Emb(tag)
Emb(ctr)
Target Attention
Emb(ID)
Emb(tag)
Emb(brand)
Emb(ID)
Emb(tag)
Emb(brand)
Emb(ctr)
Emb(pv)
Feat(rt)
ID
tag
brand
ID
tag
brand
Figure 1: Data Arrangement and workflow of traditional ranking
model. An example with simplified features is demonstrated: U con-
tains ‘age’ and ‘gender’; −→S and −→R is comprised by 2 item respectively,
each item possesses ‘ID’, ‘tag’ and ‘brand’; C contains ‘ctr’ and ‘pv’,
presenting user’s historical CTR and number of exposures to the
candidate, which uses ‘ID’, ‘tag’ and ‘brand’.
3.2
Ranking Model in Recommendation
Systems
With input samples D, traditional recommendation system pro-
cesses the samples independently. Specially, it firstly embeds the
features in D and converts the samples to a dense representation.
Formally, the features in U, C, I are embedded and concatenated to
EmbU ∈R𝐾×𝑑U, EmbC ∈R𝐾×𝑑C and EmbI ∈R𝐾×𝑑I, respectively.
For features in −→S and −→R 2, each item(S𝑖)’s feature are similarly
embedded and concatenated to EmbS𝑖∈R𝑑s, items in −→S are con-
catenated in other dimension, leading to Emb−→S ∈R𝑁−→S ×𝑑s 3.
To extract user interest between the historical interacted items
and candidates, target attention normally be used with target as
query and sequence feature as key/value. Formally,
Feat−→S = Attention(EmbI, Emb−→S , Emb−→S ) ∈R𝐾×𝑑S
(1)
Eq.1 aggregates −→S according to I. Finally, embedded and processed
features from D are concatenated and represented as:
FeatD = [EmbU, Feat−→S , Feat−→R , EmbC, Embs] ∈R𝐾×(𝑑U+𝑑S+𝑑C+𝑑I)
(2)
FeatD is further fed to a multiple layer perceptron (MLP) to output
logit for each sample. The logit is used for learning in training and
for ranking when inference.
2In the following description, since −→S and −→R are processed in a similar way, only −→S ’s
modeling is described for clarity.
3𝑁∗represents the sequence length of ∗
Fig.1 shows a simplified data arrangement and workflow under
the traditional ranking model. These features are firstly embedded,
the leading embeddings are processed in different methods. Finally,
the processed features are concatenated and processed by MLP for
feature interaction. The final logit is generate for each candidates.
3.3
Scaling Dilemma in Recommendation
Systems
Model scaling has been a common method for performance im-
provement in ranking. Generally, model scaling aims at scaling
parameters in user module and cross module. The user module
processes user feature including sequence features and generates
user-dependent representation. Scaling user module brings in bet-
ter representation for user. Besides, since the user is shared and
inferred once for all candidates, a large inference cost in the user
module does not lead to a burdensome system overload. However,
scaling user module alone does not contribute to feature interaction
in user and item directly.
On the contrary, another trend of method aims at scaling cross
module, i.e., the feature interaction MLP after feature concatenation.
These methods enhance ranking ability by paying more attention
to interaction between user and candidates. However, since cross
module is inferred for each candidates, computation increasing is
scaled linearly with number of candidates. Cross module scaling
brings in unacceptable system latency.
The scaling dilemma in traditional recommendation system ne-
cessitates a new scaling method, leading to efficient feature interac-
tion between user and candidates, while at the same time brings
sub-linear inference cost with number of candidates. MTGR in-
novates the scaling approach in recommendation system by data
rearrangement and corresponding architecture optimization.
4
Data Rearrangement and Architecture of
MTGR
4.1
User Sample Aggregation for Training and
Inference Efficiency
Compared with feature categorization in Sec.3.1, for 𝑖-th sample in
candidates, MTGR organizes features into D𝑖= [U, −→S , −→R, [C𝑖, I𝑖]].
Specially, the cross feature C is arranged as part of the item feature
of candidates. In MTGR, candidates are aggregated by user in a
specific window for training and by request for inference. Since the
aggregation is performed by the same user, the aggregated sample
can use the same user representation (U, −→S , −→R). In particular, −→R
arranges all the user’s real-time interaction items within another
specific window in chronological order of interaction time.
Fig.2(a) demonstrates the aggregation: Compared with Fig.1
where only one candidate is predicted, Fig.2(a) aggregates three
items in one sample, reusing the same user representation. Formally,
it forms a feature representation for the same user:
D = [U, −→S , −→R, [C, I]1, ..., [C, I]𝐾]
(3)
By aggregating candidates into one sample, MTGR reduces a
tremendous amount of resource by performing only a single com-
putation and producing scores for all candidates. Specially, the user
aggregation procedure greatly reduce the training samples from the

CIKM ’25, November 10–14, 2025, Seoul, Republic of Korea
Ruidong Han, Bin Yin, Shangyu Chen et al.
(a) Data Arrangement & Architecture of MTGR
(b) Self Attention Block
(c) Costomized Mask
embedding lookup
 MLP for Candiates
Self Attention with Costomized Mask
logit
MLP
logit
logit
Emb(tag)
Emb(brand)
Emb(tag)
Emb(brand)
 MLP for Seq
Emb(ID)
Emb(ID)
Raw Features
Seq
Candiates
Emb(tag)
Emb(brand)
Emb(tag)
Emb(brand)
 MLP for RT
Emb(ID)
Emb(ID)
Emb(tag)
Emb(brand)
Emb(ctr)
Emb(pv)
Emb(ID)
Emb(tag)
Emb(brand)
Emb(ctr)
Emb(pv)
Emb(ID)
Emb(tag)
Emb(brand)
Emb(ctr)
Emb(pv)
Emb(ID)
Token(candiate)
Token(candidate)
Token(candidate)
Token(seq)
Token(seq)
Token(seq) Token(seq)
Token(age)
Token(gender)
Output(candiate)
Output(candidate)
Output(candidate)
age
ctr
seq1
seq2
target2
target1
target3
age
ctr
seq1
seq2
target1
target2
target3
rt1
rt2
rt1
rt2
Group LN
K Proj
Q Proj
V Proj
Attention
Masking
Value Update
U Proj
 x K
Group LN
age
gender
User
RT
brand
ID
tag
brand
ID
tag
brand
ID
tag
brand
ID
tag
ID
tag
brand
ctr
pv
ID
tag
brand
ctr
pv
ID
tag
brand
ctr
pv
Token(User) Token(Seq) Token(RT) Token(Candidate)
x N
Figure 2: Data Arrangement and architecture of MTGR. (a) represents
data arrangement and overall workflow of MTGR: 3 candidates’ fea-
tures are aggregated with the counterpart of one user. The features
are embedded and converted to token by MLP, forming a series of
input sequence for self-attention with mask. The representation of
the tokens of candidates are used for logit via another MLP module.
(b) Detailed description of self-attention module of 𝐿layers: input
sequence is firstly processed by a group layer norm and 4 projec-
tions (Q/K/V/U). Self-attention is conducted with a customized mask.
After value update, a dot-producted is performed on updated V and
projected U. Finally, the updated value is again group-wise layer
normed and added with a residual connection. (c) Customized mask
to avoid information leakage, ‘rt’s and ‘target’s are ordered from
recent to past: user feature (U, −→S ) is visible to all the tokens; ‘rt’s is
visible to other tokens appear later; ‘target’s is visible to itself only.
sizes of all candidates to all users. For inference, the candidates in a
request are grouped as mentioned above, MTGR only perform one-
time inference for all the candidate ranking, instead of inference
of candidates’ number. The aggregation circumvents the depen-
dency of candidate’ volume in inference cost, leaving possibility
and potential for model scaling.
Eq.3 is a combination of scalar and sequence features. To unify
the input format, MTGR converts features and sequence into tokens.
Specially, for scalar features in U, each feature is naturally converted
to individual token with dimension FeatU ∈R𝑁U×𝑑model. 𝑑model is
a set unified dimension for all tokens. For sequence feature of −→S
and −→R, each item S is regarded as a token. Features in S is firstly
embedded and concatenated, then a MLP module is adopted for
dimension unification. Formally, FeatS𝑖= MLP(Concat(Embs)) ∈
R𝑑model. The features of S in the sequence is concatenated along
another dimension, leading to Feat−→S ∈R𝑁−→S ×𝑑model.
Similar, each item I in candidates is regarded as a token. The fea-
tures in candidates are embedded and concatenated, converted to
the unified dimension by another MLP. Candidates are concatenated
as a series of tokens: FeatI = Concat(MLP(Concat(EmbC𝑖, EmbI𝑖))) ∈
R𝑁I Finally, the constructed tokens from U, −→S , [C, s] are concate-
nated, leading a long sequence of tokens:
FeatD
=
Concat([FeatU, Feat−→S , Feat−→R , FeatI])
(4)
∈
R(𝑁U+𝑁−→S +𝑁−→R +𝑁I)×𝑑model
4.2
Unified HSTU Encoder
Samples from a user are aggregated as a sequence of tokens, which
is naturally suitable for processing using self-attention. Inspired by
HSTU [23], MTGR uses stacks of self-attention layer and encoder-
only architecture for modeling.
Similar in LLM, the input token sequences are processed layer-
wisely. As shown in Fig.2, in the self-attention block, input sequence
X is firstly normalized by group layer norm. Features of the same
domain (for example, U) form a group. Then, the group layer norm
ensures that tokens from different domains share a similar distribu-
tion before self-attention and aligns different semantic spaces of dif-
ferent domains ˜𝑋= GroupLN(X). The normalized input is then pro-
jected to 4 different representation: K, Q, V, U = MLPK/Q/V/U( ˜X).
Q, K is utilized for multi-head attention computation with silu non-
linear activation. The leading attention is divided by total length of
input features as an average factor. Next, a customized mask (M) is
imposed on the attention score and the projected V is applied for
value update:
˜V
=
silu(K𝑇Q)
(𝑁U + 𝑁−→S + 𝑁−→R + 𝑁I) MV
(5)
The projected U and the updated ˜V is dot-producted. Then, another
group layer norm is applied. Finally, we add a residual module and
place another MLP above it:
X
=
MLP(GroupLN( ˜V ⊙U)) + X
(6)
Dynamic Masking [23] utilizes the causal mask for sequence
modeling. However, such a implementation does not bring in sig-
nificant improvement in MTGR. Besides, since −→R records the user’s
most recent interactions which timing might coincide with the
sample aggregation window. Using a simple causal mask in MTGR
could result in information leakage. For example, interactions in the
evening should not be exposed to candidates in the afternoon, yet
this information may be aggregated into one sample. This dilemma
requires a flexible and efficient masking.
In MTGR, U, −→S is regarded as static (in the following, we de-
note U, −→S as ‘static sequence’) because its information comes from
before the aggregation window, thus it does not cause causality
errors. −→R is dynamic as it progressively include user’s interaction

MTGR: Industrial-Scale Generative Recommendation Framework in Meituan
CIKM ’25, November 10–14, 2025, Seoul, Republic of Korea
(‘dynamic sequence’ for −→S ) in real-time. MTGR applies full atten-
tion for static sequence, auto-regressive with dynamic masking for
−→R and diagonal masking for inter-candidates. Specially, 3 rules are
set for MTGR’s masking:
• The static sequence is visible to all tokens.
• The visibility of the dynamic sequence adheres to causal-
ity, where each token is only visible to tokens that occur
afterward, which include candidate tokens.
• Candidate tokens (C, I) is visible to itself only.
Fig.2 (c) demonstrates an example for the dynamic masking: ‘age’,
‘ctr’ represent feature token from U; ‘seq1’, ‘seq2’ for −→S ; ‘rt1’, ‘rt2’
for −→R and ‘target1’ - ‘target3’ for candidates. White block in row
represents that the certain token is able to use the information
from others while column represents the token is visible to others
or not. Full attention is utilized for U and S, leading to a white
square from ‘age’ to ‘seq2’. For ‘rt1’ to ‘rt2’, we assume that ‘rt1’
appear latter than ‘rt2’, Therefore, a tiny square from ‘rt1’ to ‘rt2’
is constructed with white blocks in upper triangle, meaning that
‘rt1’ is able to use information from ‘rt2’ while ‘rt1’ is not visible
to ‘rt2’. Besides, ‘target2’ and ‘target3’ is assumed to appear earlier
than ‘rt1’, leading to ‘rt1’ is not visible to them. ‘rt2’ appear earlier
than all ‘target1’ and ‘target2’ while latter than ‘target3’. Therefore,
‘rt2’ is not visible to ‘target3’, which appears earlier than all ‘rt’s,
leading to its unable to use information from ‘rt’s.
5
Training System
To facilitate the design and development of MTGR model struc-
ture and to conveniently incorporate more features from the fast-
growing LLM community, we decided not to continue with our
previous TensorFlow-based training framework. Instead, we opted
to reconstruct our training framework within the PyTorch ecosys-
tem. Specifically, we expanded and optimized TorchRec’s function-
ality, made enhancements specifically catering to MTGR model’s
characteristics, and ultimately accomplished efficient training of
MTGR model. Compared to TorchRec, our optimized framework
improves training throughput by 1.6x – 2.4x while achieving good
scalability when running over 100 GPUs. Compared to the DLRM
baseline, we achieved 65x FLOPs per sample for forward compu-
tation, while the training cost remained nearly unchanged. We
provide some of our key work as follows.
Dynamic Hash Table. TorchRec use a fixed-size table to process
sparse embeddings, which is not suitable for large-scale industrial
streaming training scenarios. Firstly, additional embeddings cannot
be allocated to new users and items at real-time once the static
table hits its preset capacity. Secondly, static embedding tables
often require reserving more space than needed to avoid ID over-
flow, resulting in ineffective use of memory resources. To address
these issues, we develop a high-performance embedding table uti-
lizing hash techniques, enabling the dynamic allocation of space
to accommodate sparse IDs during training. Our design employs
a decoupled hash table architecture[21], segregating key storage
and value storage into separate entities. The key storage offers a
lightweight mapping system linking keys to pointers, which point
to embedding vectors, while the value storage contains the embed-
ding vectors along with additional metadata, such as counters and
timestamps, for eviction policies. This two-part system achieves
two primary objectives: (1) facilitating dynamic expansion of ca-
pacity by replicating only the key storage instead of the extensive
embeddings, and (2) improving the efficiency of key scanning by
arranging keys in a compact format.
Embedding Lookup. The embedding lookup process employs
All-to-all communication for cross-device embedding exchange. To
minimize duplicate ID transfers between devices, we implement a
two-step process that ensures IDs remain unique both before and
after communication.
Load balance. In recommendation systems, user behavior se-
quences often exhibit a long-tail distribution where only a few
users have long sequences, while most have short ones. This leads
to significant computational load imbalance when training with a
fixed batch size (abbreviated as BS). A common solution is to use se-
quence packing techniques[10], where multiple short sequences are
merged into a longer one. However, this approach requires careful
mask adjustments to prevent different sequences from interfering
with each other during the attention calculation, which can be quite
costly to implement. Our straightforward solution is to introduce
dynamic BS. Each GPU’s local BS is adjusted based on the actual
sequence length of the input data, ensuring a similar computational
load. Additionally, we’ve tweaked the gradient aggregation strategy
to weight each GPU’s gradients according to its BS, maintaining
computational logic consistency with fixed BS.
Other Optimizations. To further enhance training efficiency,
we implement pipeline technology utilizing three distinct streams:
copy, dispatch, and compute. The copy stream is responsible for
transferring input data from the CPU to the GPU, while the dispatch
stream executes table lookups using IDs, and the compute stream
deals with both forward computations and backward updates. For
example, while the compute stream performs forward and backward
passes for batch T, the copy stream simultaneously loads batch T+1,
thereby minimizing I/O delay. Once backward updates for batch T
are completed, the dispatch stream promptly starts table lookups
and communication for batch T + 1. Furthermore, we employ bf16
mixed-precision training and have designed a specialized attention
kernel based on cutlass to accelerate training progress.
6
Experiments
6.1
Experiment setup
Datasets. Public datasets widely use independent ID and attribute
features, where cross features are seldom introduced. However,
cross features demonstrate importance in real-world application.
Cross features are an important category of features in our scenario.
They are often meticulously hand-crafted, including interactions
like user-item, user and higher-level categories, item and spatio-
temporal information. To compensate the absence of cross feature in
public datasets, we construct a training dataset based on logs from
the real industrial-scale recommendation system in Meituan. Unlike
public datasets, our real dataset contains a richer cross features set
and longer user behavior sequences. Using our industrial-scale data
for experiments better highlights the significant impact of these
cross features on real recommendation systems. In addition, the
volume of our dataset is large, allowing complex models to achieve

CIKM ’25, November 10–14, 2025, Seoul, Republic of Korea
Ruidong Han, Bin Yin, Shangyu Chen et al.
more adequate convergence during training. For the offline experi-
ments, we collect data over a 10-day period. The statistics of the
dataset are shown in Table 1. For the online experiments, in order
to compare with the DLRM baseline that has been trained for over
2 years, we constructed a longer-term dataset for the experiments,
using data spanning more than 6 months.
Table 1: Dataset Statistics
Dataset
#Users
#Items
#Exposure
#Click
#Purchases
Train
0.21 billion
4,302,391
23.74 billion
1.08 billion
0.18 billion
Test
3,021,198
3,141,997
76,855,608
4,545,386
769,534
Baseline. For DLRM, we compare two methods in sequence
modeling: SIM based on sequence retrieval and End2End modeling
for original long sequences (E2E). In terms of scaling, we compared
DNN, MoE[13], Wukong[25], MultiEmbed[6], and UserTower.
MoE uses 4 experts, with each expert containing a network of
the same complexity as the base DNN. Wukong and MultiEmbed
are configured to the same computational complexity as MoE. User-
Tower uses a set of learnable queries and inserts a qFormer[11]
layer with another MoE (16 experts) module on user behavior. User-
Tower’s computational complexity is tripled than MoE method, but
it can share this computation for multiple predicted items for the
same user during inference, thereby reducing inference costs. It has
achieved good results in our scenario.
MTGR employs E2E to handle all sequence information. Addi-
tionally, as shown in Table 2, we have set up three different scales
to verify the scalability of MTGR.
Table 2: Comparison of models with different settings and computa-
tional complexity
Model
Setting
Learning rate
GFLOPs/example
UserTower-SIM
-
8 × 10−4
0.86
MTGR-small
𝑛layer = 3, 𝑑model = 512, 𝑛heads = 2
3 × 10−4
5.47
MTGR-medium
𝑛layer = 5, 𝑑model = 768, 𝑛heads = 3
3 × 10−4
18.59
MTGR-large
𝑛layer = 15, 𝑑model = 768, 𝑛heads = 3
1 × 10−4
55.76
Evaluation Metrics. In offline, we focus on learning of two
tasks: CTR and CTCVR (Click-Through Conversion Rate) and use
AUC[5] and GAUC (Group AUC) for evaluation. GAUC is averaged
on the the AUCs under users. Compared to AUC, GAUC pays more
attention to the model’s ranking ability for the same user. For online
evaluation, we focus on two metrics: PV_CTR (CTR per page view)
and UV_CTCVR (CTCVR per user view), where UV_CTCVR is the
most crucial metric for evaluating the growth of business.
Parameter Setting. Our model is trained using the Adam opti-
mizer. For DLRM, each GPU processes a batch size of 2400, with 8
NVIDIA A100 GPUs for training. In the case of MTGR, the batch
size is set to 96, utilizing 16 NVIDIA A100 GPUs for training. As
shown in Table 2, the learning rate decreases as the complexity of
the model increases. Additionally, as the computational complexity
grows, we proportionally enlarge the size of the sparse parameters
by configuring different embedding dimensions. Assuming that a
token consists of 𝑘features, the embedding dimension for each
feature is generally set to an integer close to 𝑑model/𝑘. It is worth
noting that, to prevent excessive overhead due to the overexpan-
sion of sparse parameters, we primarily increase the dimensions
of sparse features with smaller cardinality, while maintaining the
dimensions of extremely sparse features unchanged. Finally, the
maximum length of −→S is set to 1000, while −→R is set to 100.
6.2
Overall Performance Comparison
We evaluate the performance of MTGR and other baseline methods
using our 10-day dataset. Table 3 shows the performance of different
models. The differences among various models across different of-
fline metrics are quite consistent. Based on previous experience, an
increase 0.001 in our offline metric is considered significant. Among
the various versions of DLRM, Wukong-SIM and MultiEmbed-SIM
achieve a better result than MoE-SIM. UserTower-SIM performs
the best and UserTower-E2E shows a slight decline in performance
compared to UserTower-SIM. We speculate that under the DLRM
paradigm, the model complexity is insufficient to model all sequence
information, leading to underfitting. Our proposed MTGR, even
the smallest version, exceeds the strongest DLRM model. Addition-
ally, models of three different sizes exhibit scalability, with their
performance smoothly increasing as the complexity of the model
increases.
Table 3: Overall performance. Impr.% represents the relative improve-
ment of the best MTGR model compared to the strongest DLRM
baselines (underlined).
Model
CTR
CTCVR
AUC
GAUC
AUC
GAUC
DNN-SIM
0.7432
0.6679
0.8737
0.6504
MoE-SIM
0.7484
0.6698
0.8750
0.6519
MultiEmbed-SIM
0.7501
0.6715
0.8766
0.6525
Wukong-SIM
0.7568
0.6759
0.8800
0.6530
UserTower-SIM
0.7593
0.6792
0.8815
0.6550
UserTower-E2E
0.7576
0.6787
0.8818
0.6548
MTGR-small
0.7631
0.6826
0.8840
0.6603
MTGR-medium
0.7645
0.6843
0.8849
0.6625
MTGR-large
0.7661
0.6865
0.8862
0.6646
Impr.%
0.8956
1.0748
0.4990
1.4656
Table 4: Ablation studies of MTGR
Model
CTR
CTCVR
AUC
GAUC
AUC
GAUC
MTGR-small
0.7631
0.6826
0.8840
0.6603
w/o cross features
0.7495
0.6689
0.8736
0.6514
w/o GLN
0.7606
0.6809
0.8826
0.6585
w/o dynamic mask
0.7620
0.6810
0.8828
0.6587
6.3
Ablation Study
We perform ablation studies on two components of MTGR: Dy-
namic Masking and group layer norm (GLN) based on our small
one. The ablation results are shown in Fig 4. Eliminating any of
these from MTGR will result in a significant decline in performance,

MTGR: Industrial-Scale Generative Recommendation Framework in Meituan
CIKM ’25, November 10–14, 2025, Seoul, Republic of Korea
0.6591
0.6603
0.6615
0.6623
0.65
0.655
0.66
0.665
2
3
5
8
0.6551
0.6591
0.6603
0.6625
0.65
0.655
0.66
0.665
100
300
1000
5000
0.6543
0.6583
0.6603
0.6614
0.65
0.655
0.66
0.665
128
256
512
1024
-0.2
0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1
1.2
-2
0
2
4
6
8
log2(flops)
CTCVR GAUC gain
a. Number of HSTU block
b. 𝑑!"#$%
c. Sequence length
d. Scaling Law
CTCVR GAUC
CTCVR GAUC
Figure 3: MTGR performance improves smoothly as we increase the
numer of HSTU block, 𝑑𝑚𝑜𝑑𝑒𝑙and sequence length for training
with the degree of decline being comparable to the increase from
MTGR-small to MTGR-medium. This indicates the importance of
Dynamic Masking and GLN for MTGR. In addition, we conducted
extra experiments on the importance of cross features to MTGR.
After removing the cross features, the performance metrics show a
significant drop, which even erases the gain of MTGR-large over
DLRM, highlighting the vital role of cross features in the real rec-
ommendation system.
6.4
Scalability
Fig. 3 illustrates the scalability of our MTGR. We perform tests based
on MTGR-small for three different hyperparameters: the number
of HSTU blocks, the 𝑑model, and the input sequence length. As can
be observed, MTGR demonstrates good scalability across different
hyperparameters. Furthermore, Fig. 3(d) presents a power-law rela-
tionship between performance and computational complexity. The
vertical axis indicates the gain in the CTCVR GAUC metric relative
to our best DLRM model, UserTower-SIM, while the horizontal
axis reflects the logarithmic multiple of computational complexity
compared to UserTower-SIM.
6.5
Online Experiments
To further validate the effectiveness of MTGR, we deployed MTGR
in the Meituan Take-away platform, conducting AB testing with 2%
of the traffic. The volume of experimental traffic covers millions of
exposures per day, demonstrating the confidence of the experiment.
The comparison baseline is the most advanced online DLRM model
(UserTower-SIM), and it has been continuously learning for 2 years.
We use data from the last 6 months to train the MTGR model, which
is then deployed online for comparison.
Although the volume of training data is significantly lower than
the counterpart of DLRM model, the offline and online metrics
still greatly exceed the DLRM base. As shown in Table 5, both the
offline and online metrics demonstrate scalability. We also found
that as the number of training tokens increases, the benefits com-
pared to DLRM continue to amplify. Eventually, in terms of CTCVR
GAUC, our large version even exceeds the cumulative increase of
all optimizations over the past year.
The model has already been fully deployed in our scenario, with
training costs equal to DLRM, and inference costs reduced by 12%.
For DLRM, its inference cost is approximately linear with the num-
ber of candidates. However, MTGR uses user aggregation for all
candidates in a request, leading to sub-linear inference cost scaling
with the number of candidates. This helps us reduce the overhead
of online inference.
Table 5: Comparison of offline and online effects for different ver-
sions of MTGR.
Offline Metric diff
Online Metric diff
CTR GAUC
CTCVR GAUC
PV_CTR
UV_CTCVR
MTGR-small
+0.0036
+0.0154
+1.04%
+0.04%
MTGR-medium
+0.0071
+0.0182
+2.29%
+0.62%
MTGR-large
+0.0153
+0.0288
+1.90%
+1.02%
7
Conclusion
In this paper, we proposed MTGR, a new ranking framework to
explore the scaling law in recommendation systems based on HSTU.
MTGR combines the advantages of DLRM and GRM, allowing the
use of cross-features to ensure model performance while having
the same scalability as GRM. MTGR has already been deployed
in our scenario and has yielded significant benefits. In the future,
we will explore how to extend MTGR to multi-scenario modeling,
similar to large language models, to establish a recommendation
foundation model with extensive knowledge.

CIKM ’25, November 10–14, 2025, Seoul, Republic of Korea
Ruidong Han, Bin Yin, Shangyu Chen et al.
References
[1] Qiwei Chen, Changhua Pei, Shanshan Lv, Chao Li, Junfeng Ge, and Wenwu Ou.
2021. End-to-end user behavior retrieval in click-through rateprediction model.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2108.04468 (2021).
[2] Tri Dao, Dan Fu, Stefano Ermon, Atri Rudra, and Christopher Ré. 2022. Flashat-
tention: Fast and memory-efficient exact attention with io-awareness. Advances
in neural information processing systems 35 (2022), 16344–16359.
[3] Jiaxin Deng, Shiyao Wang, Kuo Cai, Lejian Ren, Qigen Hu, Weifeng Ding,
Qiang Luo, and Guorui Zhou. 2025. OneRec: Unifying Retrieve and Rank with
Generative Recommender and Iterative Preference Alignment. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2502.18965 (2025).
[4] Yan Fang, Jingtao Zhan, Qingyao Ai, Jiaxin Mao, Weihang Su, Jia Chen, and Yiqun
Liu. 2024. Scaling laws for dense retrieval. In Proceedings of the 47th International
ACM SIGIR Conference on Research and Development in Information Retrieval.
1339–1349.
[5] Cesar Ferri, José Hernández-Orallo, and Peter A Flach. 2011. A coherent in-
terpretation of AUC as a measure of aggregated classification performance. In
Proceedings of the 28th International Conference on Machine Learning (ICML-11).
657–664.
[6] Xingzhuo Guo, Junwei Pan, Ximei Wang, Baixu Chen, Jie Jiang, and Mingsheng
Long. 2023. On the embedding collapse when scaling up recommendation models.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2310.04400 (2023).
[7] Ruidong Han, Qianzhong Li, He Jiang, Rui Li, Yurou Zhao, Xiang Li, and Wei
Lin. 2024. Enhancing CTR Prediction through Sequential Recommendation Pre-
training: Introducing the SRP4CTR Framework. In Proceedings of the 33rd ACM
International Conference on Information and Knowledge Management. 3777–3781.
[8] Dmytro Ivchenko, Dennis Van Der Staay, Colin Taylor, Xing Liu, Will Feng, Rahul
Kindi, Anirudh Sudarshan, and Shahin Sefati. 2022. Torchrec: a pytorch domain
library for recommendation systems. In Proceedings of the 16th ACM Conference
on Recommender Systems. 482–483.
[9] Jared Kaplan, Sam McCandlish, Tom Henighan, Tom B Brown, Benjamin Chess,
Rewon Child, Scott Gray, Alec Radford, Jeffrey Wu, and Dario Amodei. 2020.
Scaling laws for neural language models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2001.08361 (2020).
[10] Mario Michael Krell, Matej Kosec, Sergio P Perez, and Andrew Fitzgibbon. 2021.
Efficient sequence packing without cross-contamination: Accelerating large lan-
guage models without impacting performance. arXiv preprint arXiv:2107.02027
(2021).
[11] Junnan Li, Dongxu Li, Silvio Savarese, and Steven Hoi. 2023. Blip-2: Bootstrapping
language-image pre-training with frozen image encoders and large language
models. In International conference on machine learning. PMLR, 19730–19742.
[12] Jianxun Lian, Xiaohuan Zhou, Fuzheng Zhang, Zhongxia Chen, Xing Xie, and
Guangzhong Sun. 2018. xdeepfm: Combining explicit and implicit feature in-
teractions for recommender systems. In Proceedings of the 24th ACM SIGKDD
international conference on knowledge discovery & data mining. 1754–1763.
[13] Jiaqi Ma, Zhe Zhao, Xinyang Yi, Jilin Chen, Lichan Hong, and Ed H Chi. 2018.
Modeling task relationships in multi-task learning with multi-gate mixture-of-
experts. In Proceedings of the 24th ACM SIGKDD international conference on
knowledge discovery & data mining. 1930–1939.
[14] William Peebles and Saining Xie. 2023. Scalable diffusion models with transform-
ers. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF international conference on computer vision.
4195–4205.
[15] Qi Pi, Guorui Zhou, Yujing Zhang, Zhe Wang, Lejian Ren, Ying Fan, Xiaoqiang
Zhu, and Kun Gai. 2020. Search-based user interest modeling with lifelong
sequential behavior data for click-through rate prediction. In Proceedings of the
29th ACM International Conference on Information & Knowledge Management.
2685–2692.
[16] Kyuyong Shin, Hanock Kwak, Su Young Kim, Max Nihlén Ramström, Jisu Jeong,
Jung-Woo Ha, and Kyung-Min Kim. 2023. Scaling law for recommendation
models: Towards general-purpose user representations. In Proceedings of the
AAAI conference on artificial intelligence, Vol. 37. 4596–4604.
[17] Zihua Si, Lin Guan, ZhongXiang Sun, Xiaoxue Zang, Jing Lu, Yiqun Hui, Xingchao
Cao, Zeyu Yang, Yichen Zheng, Dewei Leng, et al. 2024. Twin v2: Scaling ultra-
long user behavior sequence modeling for enhanced ctr prediction at kuaishou.
In Proceedings of the 33rd ACM International Conference on Information and
Knowledge Management. 4890–4897.
[18] Hongyan Tang, Junning Liu, Ming Zhao, and Xudong Gong. 2020. Progressive
layered extraction (ple): A novel multi-task learning (mtl) model for personalized
recommendations. In Proceedings of the 14th ACM conference on recommender
systems. 269–278.
[19] Ruoxi Wang, Rakesh Shivanna, Derek Cheng, Sagar Jain, Dong Lin, Lichan Hong,
and Ed Chi. 2021. Dcn v2: Improved deep & cross network and practical lessons
for web-scale learning to rank systems. In Proceedings of the web conference 2021.
1785–1797.
[20] Xu Wang, Jiangxia Cao, Zhiyi Fu, Kun Gai, and Guorui Zhou. 2024. HoME:
Hierarchy of Multi-Gate Experts for Multi-Task Learning at Kuaishou. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2408.05430 (2024).
[21] Yuxiang Wang, Xiao Yan, Chi Ma, Mincong Huang, Xiaoguang Li, Lei Yu, Chuan
Liu, Ruidong Han, He Jiang, Bin Yin, et al. 2025. MTGRBoost: Boosting Large-scale
Generative Recommendation Models in Meituan. arXiv preprint arXiv:2505.12663
(2025).
[22] Bencheng Yan, Shilei Liu, Zhiyuan Zeng, Zihao Wang, Yizhen Zhang, Yujin Yuan,
Langming Liu, Jiaqi Liu, Di Wang, Wenbo Su, et al. 2025. Unlocking Scaling Law
in Industrial Recommendation Systems with a Three-step Paradigm based Large
User Model. arXiv preprint arXiv:2502.08309 (2025).
[23] Jiaqi Zhai, Lucy Liao, Xing Liu, Yueming Wang, Rui Li, Xuan Cao, Leon Gao, Zhao-
jie Gong, Fangda Gu, Michael He, et al. 2024. Actions speak louder than words:
Trillion-parameter sequential transducers for generative recommendations. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2402.17152 (2024).
[24] Xiaohua Zhai, Alexander Kolesnikov, Neil Houlsby, and Lucas Beyer. 2022. Scaling
vision transformers. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF conference on computer vision
and pattern recognition. 12104–12113.
[25] Buyun Zhang, Liang Luo, Yuxin Chen, Jade Nie, Xi Liu, Daifeng Guo, Yanli Zhao,
Shen Li, Yuchen Hao, Yantao Yao, et al. 2024. Wukong: Towards a scaling law for
large-scale recommendation. arXiv preprint arXiv:2403.02545 (2024).
[26] Wei Zhang, Dai Li, Chen Liang, Fang Zhou, Zhongke Zhang, Xuewei Wang,
Ru Li, Yi Zhou, Yaning Huang, Dong Liang, et al. 2024. Scaling User Modeling:
Large-scale Online User Representations for Ads Personalization in Meta. In
Companion Proceedings of the ACM Web Conference 2024. 47–55.
[27] Guorui Zhou, Xiaoqiang Zhu, Chenru Song, Ying Fan, Han Zhu, Xiao Ma, Yanghui
Yan, Junqi Jin, Han Li, and Kun Gai. 2018. Deep interest network for click-through
rate prediction. In Proceedings of the 24th ACM SIGKDD international conference
on knowledge discovery & data mining. 1059–1068.
