PLUM: Adapting Pre-trained Language Models for
Industrial-scale Generative Recommendations
Ruining He∗†
Google DeepMind
Lukasz Heldt∗†
YouTube
Lichan Hong∗†
Google DeepMind
Raghunandan
Keshavan∗†
YouTube
Shifan Mao∗
YouTube
Nikhil Mehta∗†
Google DeepMind
Zhengyang Su∗
YouTube
Alicia Tsai∗†
Google DeepMind
Yueqi Wang∗
YouTube
Shao-Chuan
Wang∗
Google DeepMind
Xinyang Yi∗†
Google DeepMind
Lexi Baugher
YouTube
Baykal Cakici
YouTube
Ed Chi
Google DeepMind
Cristos Goodrow
YouTube
Ningren Han
YouTube
He Ma
YouTube
Romer Rosales
YouTube
Abby Van Soest
YouTube
Devansh Tandon
YouTube
Su-Lin Wu
YouTube
Weilong Yang
YouTube
Yilin Zheng
YouTube
Abstract
Large Language Models (LLMs) pose a new paradigm of modeling
and computation for information tasks. Recommendation systems
are a critical application domain poised to benefit significantly from
the sequence modeling capabilities and world knowledge inher-
ent in these large models. In this paper, we introduce PLUM, a
framework designed to adapt pre-trained LLMs for industry-scale
recommendation tasks. PLUM consists of item tokenization using
Semantic IDs [23, 24], continued pre-training (CPT) on domain-
specific data, and task-specific fine-tuning for recommendation
objectives. For fine-tuning, we focus particularly on generative re-
trieval, where the model is directly trained to generate Semantic IDs
of recommended items based on user context. We conduct compre-
hensive experiments on large-scale internal video recommendation
datasets. Our results demonstrate that PLUM achieves substantial
improvements for retrieval compared to a heavily-optimized pro-
duction model built with large embedding tables. We also present
a scaling study for the model’s retrieval performance, our learn-
ings about CPT, a few enhancements to Semantic IDs, along with
an overview of the training and inference methods that enable
launching this framework to billions of users in YouTube.
∗Core contributors. Alphabetical order.
†Corresponding authors: Xinyang Yi (xinyang@google.com), Lukasz Heldt
(heldt@google.com), Raghunandan Keshavan (hkraghunandan@google.com), Ru-
ining He (ruininghe@google.com), Nikhil Mehta (nikhilmehta@google.com), Ali-
cia Tsai (aliciatsai@google.com), and Lichan Hong (lichan@google.com).
Permission to make digital or hard copies of all or part of this work for personal or
classroom use is granted without fee provided that copies are not made or distributed
for profit or commercial advantage and that copies bear this notice and the full citation
on the first page. Copyrights for components of this work owned by others than the
author(s) must be honored. Abstracting with credit is permitted. To copy otherwise, or
republish, to post on servers or to redistribute to lists, requires prior specific permission
and/or a fee. Request permissions from permissions@acm.org.
Conference acronym ’XX, Woodstock, NY
© 2018 Copyright held by the owner/author(s). Publication rights licensed to ACM.
ACM ISBN 978-1-4503-XXXX-X/2018/06
https://doi.org/XXXXXXX.XXXXXXX
CCS Concepts
• Do Not Use This Code →Generate the Correct Terms for
Your Paper; Generate the Correct Terms for Your Paper; Generate
the Correct Terms for Your Paper; Generate the Correct Terms for
Your Paper.
Keywords
Recommender Systems, Generative Retrieval, Large Language Mod-
els
ACM Reference Format:
Ruining He, Lukasz Heldt, Lichan Hong, Raghunandan Keshavan, Shifan
Mao, Nikhil Mehta, Zhengyang Su, Alicia Tsai, Yueqi Wang, Shao-Chuan
Wang, Xinyang Yi, Lexi Baugher, Baykal Cakici, Ed Chi, Cristos Goodrow,
Ningren Han, He Ma, Romer Rosales, Abby Van Soest, Devansh Tandon,
Su-Lin Wu, Weilong Yang, and Yilin Zheng. 2018. PLUM: Adapting Pre-
trained Language Models for Industrial-scale Generative Recommendations.
In Proceedings of Make sure to enter the correct conference title from your
rights confirmation email (Conference acronym ’XX). ACM, New York, NY,
USA, 11 pages. https://doi.org/XXXXXXX.XXXXXXX
1
Introduction
Recommender systems are critical in modern digital platforms,
profoundly shaping how users discover and interact with content.
The last decades have witnessed the remarkable success of deep
learning models for recommendation in both retrieval and ranking
stages. Despite the use of neural networks, the dominant paradigm
in industrial recommenders continues to rely on massive embed-
ding tables to represent high-cardinality categorical features such
as item IDs (see, e.g., [5, 6, 17, 19]). In these Large Embedding Mod-
els (LEMs), the vast majority of parameters reside within these
embedding tables. While highly effective at memorizing user-item
interactions, this architectural choice hinders the potential bene-
fits of deeper, more complex networks (e.g., [3, 8]). This scaling
methodology, focused on enlarging embedding tables, is in contrast
arXiv:2510.07784v1  [cs.IR]  9 Oct 2025

Conference acronym ’XX, June 03–05, 2018, Woodstock, NY
He et al.
to that of LLMs, which emphasizes on increasing neural network
sizes to learn compositions of compact input tokens.
The success of LLMs has inspired an emerging paradigm shift
for building recommendation models [4, 7, 21, 23, 36, 40]. The in-
herent sequence modeling capabilities and vast world knowledge
encoded in LLMs present opportunities for building more intelli-
gent and personalized recommender systems. However, adapting
LLMs for recommendations is non-trivial. The primary challenge
lies in bridging the domain gap: LLMs are not pre-trained with
user behavior data and item corpus in the target domain, making
it harder for them to understand user preferences from user ac-
tivities and nuanced item quality. Consequently, directly applying
off-the-shelf LLMs to recommendation tasks has shown a persis-
tent performance gap, even on small public datasets [12]. Secondly,
the traditional input representation based on large embedding ta-
bles poses a scaling challenge. These tables demand large amounts
of training data, making it expensive to train large Transformer
architectures.
This paper takes a step in the direction of teaching LLMs to solve
recommendation tasks. We introduce PLUM, a framework for ef-
fectively adapting pre-trained LLMs for industrial-scale generative
recommendation. PLUM consists of three key stages:
• Item tokenization. Each item in the corpus is represented
by a sequence of discrete tokens known as Semantic IDs
(SIDs). Building on the prior work with RQ-VAE [23, 24],
we introduce a set of new techniques (referred to as SID-v2)
for incorporating user behavioral signals and multi-modal
content embeddings, and improve the hierarchical integrity
through multi-resolution codebooks and progressive mask-
ing.
• Continued pre-training (CPT). In this stage, the vocab-
ulary of a pre-trained LLM is expanded to include the new
SID tokens. The model is further pre-trained on a mixture of
domain-specific item data and user sequences, and general-
domain text data to align the new SID modality with model’s
existing knowledge.
• Task-specific fine-tuning. Finally, the model is fine-tuned
for specific recommendation objectives. While PLUM can
support various downstream tasks, this paper focuses on
its application to generative retrieval, where a decoder-only
model is trained to autoregressively generate the SIDs of next
items a user is likely to engage with. Generative retrieval
does not need to maintain a separate index of an item corpus,
and bypasses the dot-product limitation [29] in embedding-
based retrieval [6, 35].
The PLUM framework is designed to address the aforementioned
challenges. The continued pre-training bridges the domain gap by
enriching the pre-trained LLMs with domain corpus and user behav-
ior patterns. We observe that the model after CPT can demonstrate
basic few-shot learning capability for generating text tokens based
on SID input. The SID-based input representation circumvents the
scaling bottleneck of LEMs. Our experiments show that by shifting
the model complexity from input embeddings to the neural net-
works, PLUM-based generative retrieval can achieve significantly
better sample efficiency compared to a production Transformer-
based retrieval model with large embedding tables. Because of this,
while PLUM retrieval uses a Transformer architecture that has
100x dense parameters than LEM, the overall training cost for the
retrieval task is comparable due to faster convergence. We also
observe effective scaling: the retrieval performance continues to
improve up to a Mixture-of-Experts (MoE) model with over 900M
activated parameters (approximately 4.2B parameters in total).
In addition to these contributions, we will share practical learn-
ings from deploying PLUM-based retrieval in a large-scale produc-
tion environment, particularly on the comparisons between PLUM
retrieval and LEM-based retrieval in online A/B testing. The PLUM
framework is in production for YouTube recommendations, serving
the retrieval of both long-form and short-form videos on multiple
core surfaces via online and offline inference.
1.1
Related Work
We’ve seen two primary lines of work inspired by the recent ad-
vancements of LLMs. The first line of work focuses on scaling up
the neural network component of LEMs with Transformer architec-
ture (or its variant), which we discuss in Section 1.1.1. The second
line, as detailed in Section 1.1.2 and 1.1.3, focuses on token-based
generative recommendation, and recasts recommendation retrieval
as seq2seq transduction tasks.
1.1.1
Sequential Recommendations. Modeling user sequences and
feature interactions have been key areas for improving recommen-
dation models, ranging from using classic sequential neural net-
works [10, 15] to designing custom feature interaction components
[28, 37]. More recently, the emerging trend is to use a Transformer-
like architecture to unify user history and heterogeneous features
in a single sequence [9, 13, 36], showing better scaling compared to
traditional MLP architectures. Furthermore, the training paradigm
itself has evolved to mirror that of LLMs, with some works adopting
self-supervised pre-training objectives followed by task-specific
fine-tuning [4, 20]. A common thread across all these advancements
is their continued reliance on massive embedding tables for cate-
gorical features. Our work departs from this paradigm by replacing
large embedding tables with compact input tokens. Besides SIDs,
we use LLMs to process heterogeneous features by tokenizing nu-
merical features or simply use dense embedding features as soft
tokens.
1.1.2
Semantic IDs and Quantization. The concept of representing
items as sequences of discrete tokens, or Semantic IDs (SIDs), has
emerged as a powerful alternative to traditional ID embeddings.
This approach allows items to be treated as a "language" that can
be processed by sequence models. Early work demonstrated the
feasibility of training retrieval models from scratch to predict SIDs
[23], and subsequent research showed that SIDs could be hashed to
replace random item ID embeddings, enhancing generalization of
ranking models [24, 39].
A significant body of recent research has focused on improving
the quality and expressiveness of SIDs by incorporating diverse sig-
nals into the quantization process. This includes fusing multi-modal
content features [30] and injecting collaborative filtering signals
from user behaviors [16, 22, 33, 34]. PLUM contributes to this line
of research in parallel. Different from MMQ [30], where different
tokens are generated for each modality, we simply concatenate

PLUM: Adapting Pre-trained Language Models for Industrial-scale Generative Recommendations
Conference acronym ’XX, June 03–05, 2018, Woodstock, NY
multiple content embeddings before encoding them with an MLP,
offering the flexibility of supporting more embeddings. For incorpo-
rating user behaviors, while most works fuse collaborative-filtering
(CF) item embeddings to content embeddings during quantization,
the CF-based item embeddings are usually dynamic depending on
item popularity change, necessitating frequent retraining of the
quantizer and downstream models. We avoid this by using CF sig-
nals in a contrastive training objective to guide the quantizer to
capture useful information from content information. In addition,
we present two other key innovations for improving the alignment
of SID training with generative retrieval.
1.1.3
Generative Retrieval and Alignment. Generative retrieval re-
frames recommendation retrieval as a sequence-to-sequence task
where the model directly generates the SIDs of relevant items in
an autoregressive manner. This idea has gained significant traction
across the industry (e.g., [14, 18, 21, 27]), since the seminal works
in document search [25] and recommendation [23]. For instance,
OneRec [40] adopts an encoder-decoder architecture to generate
video SIDs, and leverages RL training to enhance the model quality
with a reward model. Other works [31, 32] propose hybrid models
that generate both SIDs and dense embeddings to alleviate the in-
formation loss from quantization. A commonality among most of
these approaches is their focus on training generative models from
scratch. Our work has a focus on aligning SIDs with LLMs, and
investigates the impact of LLM pre-training and CPT on generative
retrieval performance. While some research [1, 7] has explored
aligning LLMs with recommendation tasks, their focus is primarily
on language interfaces. There is limited study of how to effectively
incorporate SIDs as a new modality.
2
PLUM Framework
2.1
Semantic IDs
A Semantic ID (SID) is conceptualized as a tuple of discrete code-
words derived from an item’s underlying content features. This
process involves two primary stages: (1) encoding high-level con-
tent features into a dense semantic embedding, and (2) quantizing
this embedding into a hierarchical tuple of codewords. The effi-
cacy of a generative retrieval model is fundamentally dependent
on the semantic richness and structural integrity of the SIDs. Build-
ing upon the foundational TIGER framework, which leverages a
Residual-Quantized Variational AutoEncoder (RQ-VAE), we intro-
duce a series of significant enhancements to this generation process.
The initial approach was limited by its reliance on a single content
embedding source and an absence of collaborative signals in the ID
structure. Our methodology is designed to produce SIDs that are
more comprehensive, better aligned with user behavior, and more
hierarchically coherent. Figure 1 illustrates our overall design for
training the SID model.
2.1.1
Fused Multi-Modal Content Representation. A primary lim-
itation of relying on a single content representation in [23] is its
inherent inability to capture the multi-faceted nature of complex
media items. For instance, a video’s full semantic meaning is con-
veyed through a combination of its textual metadata, visual content,
and audio. A unimodal representation, by definition, overlooks rich,
orthogonal sources of information. To overcome this, we architect
our framework to be agnostic to the specific number and type of
input sources, enabling it to ingest and fuse multiple, heteroge-
neous representations. The model is designed to accept a set of
distinct embedding vectors {𝑥𝑚}𝑀
𝑚=1 for each item. The fusion of
such multiple representations is achieved through a separate em-
bedding encoder E𝑚that encodes 𝑥𝑚into a latent vector 𝑧𝑚and a
concatenation ˜𝑧= [𝑧1, . . . ,𝑧𝑀] followed by a projection, creating a
single, unified feature encoded vector 𝑧. By integrating information
from across modalities, we form a superior input for the subsequent
RQ-VAE quantization process, ensuring that the resulting SIDs are
grounded in a comprehensive understanding of the item’s content.
2.1.2
Hierarchical Refinements in Quantization. We further refine
the RQ-VAE architecture itself to produce a more efficient and
meaningful hierarchy. This involves two key innovations:
• Multi-Resolution Codebooks: Prior work [23] employs
a fixed uniform-resolution codebooks that can be paramet-
rically inefficient, leading to a vast and sparsely populated
SID space where the majority of potential codeword com-
binations remain unassigned. We replace this with a multi-
resolution codebook structure, where the initial SID levels
have high resolution and are maximally discriminative, while
subsequent codewords encode low-entropy residuals with
lower resolution. In particular, the codebook cardinality is a
function of the quantization level: 2048/2𝑙𝑒𝑣𝑒𝑙−1 resulting in
a more compact and efficient SID.
• Progressive Masking: To enforce a stricter and more in-
terpretable hierarchy during residual quantization, we intro-
duce progressive masking. In particular, we define a binary
mask scalar 𝑚𝑙∈{0, 1} where 𝑙is the codebook level such
that 𝑚𝑙= 1𝑙<𝑟where 𝑟∈[1, 𝐿] is a random integer and 𝐿is
the total number of codebook levels. This mask is applied to
select the first 𝑟codebook levels in SID training.
2.1.3
RQ-VAE with Co-occurrence Contrastive Regularization. SIDs
derived purely from an item’s intrinsic content may not fully cap-
ture the notion of similarity as perceived by users in a recom-
mendation context. User behavior provides a powerful, extrinsic
signal of video relatedness; videos that are frequently watched to-
gether are often semantically linked. To bridge this gap between
content-based and behavior-based similarity, we inject a strong
collaborative signal directly into the ID generation phase by in-
troducing a co-occurrence contrastive loss term (L𝑐𝑜𝑛) into the
RQ-VAE training objective. This objective function is designed to
shape the embedding space based on item co-occurrence patterns
within user interaction sequences. The loss encourages the model
to generate similar SID representations for items that frequently
appear together, while pushing apart the representations of items
that do not. In particular, the contrastive loss is defined as:
L𝑐𝑜𝑛= −
2𝑁𝑏
∑︁
𝑖=1
𝑒𝑥𝑝(𝑠𝑖𝑚(𝑝𝑖, 𝑝+
𝑖))
Í2𝑁𝑏
𝑗=1 𝑒𝑥𝑝(𝑠𝑖𝑚(𝑝𝑖, 𝑝𝑗))
,
(1)
where 𝑝𝑖represents a video representation in a batch of 𝑁𝑏videos,
𝑝∗
𝑖represents the representation of the video that co-occurred with
video 𝑖and 𝑠𝑖𝑚(𝑝𝑖, 𝑝𝑗) is the dot-product similarity between videos
𝑖and 𝑗.

Conference acronym ’XX, June 03–05, 2018, Woodstock, NY
He et al.
DNN
Decoder 2
Embed 2
DNN
Decoder 1
Embed 1
Embed 2
Embed 1
Concat & Project
DNN
Encoder 1
DNN
Encoder 2
Video 1
Video 2
MLP
Video 1
Contrastive Loss
Reconstruction Loss
Video 2
Embed 1
Embed 2
Embed 1
Embed 2
MLP
+
=
Codebook 0
Codebook 1
Codebook 2
=
-
A
Residual Quantization
=
-
B
A
=
-
C
B
Codebook 3
=
-
D
C
=
-
E
D
+
+
+
Codebook 4
Co-occurring Pairs
Figure 1: Illustration of our Semantic ID model. It takes two multi-modal video embeddings, encodes them, and compresses the
result into a quantized ID using a residual quantizer. This ID is trained to both reconstruct the original inputs and semantically
cluster co-occurring videos using a contrastive loss.
2.1.4
SID Training Loss. In addition to the training loss introduced
in [24], we introduce the co-occurence contrastive loss term. In
particular, the overall loss is defined as:
L = L𝑟𝑒𝑐𝑜𝑛+ L𝑟𝑞+ L𝑐𝑜𝑛,
(2)
where L𝑟𝑒𝑐𝑜𝑛= Í𝑀
𝑚=1 ||𝑥𝑚−ˆ𝑥𝑚||2 is the reconstruction loss for
each multi-modal embedding and L𝑟𝑞= Í𝐿
𝑙=1 𝛽||𝑟𝑙−𝑠𝑔[𝑒𝑙
∗]||2 +
||𝑠𝑔[𝑟𝑙] −𝑒𝑙
∗||2, where 𝑒𝑙
∗is the closest code in the codebook at
level 𝑙, 𝑟𝑙= 𝑟𝑙−1 −𝑒𝑙
∗is the residual computed recursively at each
level starting with 𝑟0 = 𝑧and sg is the stop-gradient operator. As
shown in figure 1, the final quantized vector ˆ𝑧is computed with
progressive masking as the sum of chosen codes from each level:
ˆ𝑧= Í𝐿
𝑙=1 𝑚𝑙𝑒𝑙
∗. The quantized vector is then used as an input for
each decoder D𝑚to reconstruct the input embeddings ˆ𝑥𝑚.
2.2
Continued Pre-training
Following the creation of the SID vocabulary, one primary objective
of the continued pre-training (CPT) stage is to develop a base model
checkpoint where the SID tokens are semantically grounded and
aligned with existing text tokens of the base language model. To
achieve this, we train the model using next-token predictions on a
large-scale corpus constructed from two primary sources:
• User behavior data: This source is essential for personal-
ization and capturing watch histories. During training, each
example leverages user watch histories along with additional
watch features to model user behavior sequences.
• Video metadata corpus: This large-scale corpus is designed
to create a strong association between SIDs and their corre-
sponding textual features. Each example includes a video’s
SID, title, description, ASR captions, channel name, and syn-
thetically generated data.
Table 1 illustrates our CPT training data schema.
Table 1: Example schemas used in continued pre-training.
Example user behavior training data
wh = <sid_1> <channel_name> <watch_ratio> <watch_time>
<hours_since_final_watch> <sid_2> <channel_name> ... || <sid_n>
SID + video title
Video <sid> has title (en): <video_title>
SID + video topics
The topics in video <sid> are: <topics>
Data Mixture and Training. The training set for the CPT stage is
composed of a mixture of the user behavior data and the video meta-
data corpus, with each source accounting for 50% of the training
examples. The CPT stage undergoes 1 million training steps with a
batch size of 16, amounting to approximately 260 billion tokens in
total. We set up various evaluations to measure the performance of
generating SIDs based on user history, the ability to jointly model
SIDs and language through held-out video metadata corpus and
tracking the degradation of general language capabilities through
standard text benchmarks.
In-context Learning. The CPT models, having been trained on a
mixed corpus of SIDs and natural language, retain the flexibility to
generate free-form text, and have the in-context few-shot learning
capability. We provide some examples in Appendix A.2.
2.3
Generative Retrieval
While the continued pre-training (CPT) stage enables the model to
generate next-video SIDs from user history, a subsequent Super-
vised Fine-Tuning (SFT) stage is essential to specialize it for the
retrieval task. This SFT stage allows the model to incorporate a
richer set of features, particularly real-time context, and to be opti-
mized directly for a reward signal that aligns with user experience.

PLUM: Adapting Pre-trained Language Models for Industrial-scale Generative Recommendations
Conference acronym ’XX, June 03–05, 2018, Woodstock, NY
Figure 2: Illustration of Generative Retrieval for next video
recommendation. The input prompt is a sequence of inter-
leaved SID tokens, text and custom tokens for numerical
features.
This fine-tuning employs a standard autoregressive, maximum-
likelihood objective. The model learns to predict the SID tokens
of ground-truth videos, which are defined as clicked videos from
user logs given user context and history. Concretely, the model is
trained to minimize the following loss:
LSFT = −
𝐿
∑︁
𝑡=1
𝑟(user, 𝑣𝑐𝑙𝑖𝑐𝑘)·log 𝑃(𝑠𝑖𝑑𝑡|Contextuser, Historyuser,𝑠𝑖𝑑<𝑡),
(3)
where [𝑠𝑖𝑑1, ..,𝑠𝑖𝑑𝐿] represents the SID of clicked video 𝑣𝑐𝑙𝑖𝑐𝑘, and
𝑟(𝑢𝑠𝑒𝑟, 𝑣𝑐𝑙𝑖𝑐𝑘) is a handcrafted reward signal of each click. In prac-
tice, given the high cost of training, we sample training examples
based on this reward and then weigh the sampled examples equally
in the loss. As illustrated in Figure 2, the input prompt contains not
only SID tokens and custom tokens for numerical features, but also
other text features that can be naturally encoded by pre-trained
LLMs.
During inference, we use beam search to decode multiple SID
sequences, which serve as the set of retrieved candidates. Each
generated SID is then mapped to a real video in our billions-scale
corpus. While this generative process can potentially produce in-
valid SIDs (hallucination) or SID-to-video collisions, we observe
that the hallucination rate after SFT is very low (< 5%), and the
uniqueness of SID-to-video mapping remains high (see Table 4).
3
Experiments
In this section, we conduct a comprehensive set of experiments to
validate the PLUM framework. We first evaluate the performance
of a PLUM-based generative retrieval model against a Transformer-
based large-embedding retrieval model that contributes to a ma-
jority of impressions in production (Section 3.1). Following this,
Section 3.2 demonstrates the effectiveness of our proposed enhance-
ments to SIDs. We then conduct ablation studies for two critical
components in the PLUM framework: Section 3.3 quantifies the
precise impact of the continued pre-training (CPT) stage and the
value of initializing from a pre-trained LLM. We finally present a
detailed scaling study to analyze the relationship between model
size, compute, and retrieval performance (Section 3.4).
3.1
Performance of Generative Retrieval
Traditional recommender systems use large embedding models to
recommend candidates. However, generative retrieval has a number
of advantages over traditional systems. In this section, we study
the effectiveness of generative retrieval on the YouTube production
setup.
3.1.1
Experiment Setup.
Model. For the following experiments, we trained a 900M activated-
param PLUM model from the Gemini-1.5 Mixture-of-Experts (MoE)
family on both Long Form Video (LFV) and Shorts. The model is
warm started from Gemini and continuously finetuned on new en-
gagement data as described above. The training data is a mixture of
the most recent data and historical data. During serving, target se-
quences are decoded using beam search. In our experiments, beam
search performed better than random decoding, although at the
cost of some diversity.
Baseline. We compare the performance of the above model to
traditional LEM retrieval. This baseline is the top-performing pro-
duction model, being highly-optimized since early work such as
Chen et al. [2]. This model is also based on the Transformer ar-
chitecture, but most of its parameters are in the embedding layer,
with O(10M) vocab sizes for input and output item IDs. Specifically,
LEM’s neural network comprises only 0.4% of its total parameters,
whereas PLUM’s neural network accounts for 90%.
3.1.2
Experiment Results.
Recommendation Quality. We assess the quality of recommenda-
tions on a few different axes. First, we measure the effective vocab
size of a recommender as the number of unique videos needed
to cover 95% of its impressions. Higher vocab sizes are generally
desirable for personalized discovery of niche content, showing the
model can generalize better. Next, we compare the effectiveness
of recommendations using two metrics: a) The click-through-rate
(CTR) and Recommendation Acceptance. For Recommendation Ac-
ceptance, we compare both the length of video watched (WT/View)
and the fraction of video watched (WF/View). In all cases, we report
the ratio of the metric for the 900M MoE to the metric for the LEM
model.
Table 2: Comparison of recommendation quality: Each num-
ber is a ratio, dividing the metric for PLUM by that of LEM.
Metric
LFV
Shorts
Effective Vocab Size
2.60x
13.24x
CTR
1.42x
1.33x
WT/View
0.72x
1.13x
WF/View
1.32x
1.03x
We observe that the PLUM model achieves much larger effective
vocab size, while having competitive performance against LEM
based on the metrics related to user reactions.

Conference acronym ’XX, June 03–05, 2018, Woodstock, NY
He et al.
Live Experiments. We ran live experiments by adding the PLUM
model recommendations to the candidate pool. For a fair compar-
ison, we increased the quota (by the same amount) for the best
performing retrieval model in production and use this as the base-
line. We denote this modified production baseline as LEM+. In the
following table, we report the metric movements observed with
respect to LEM+ on four key metrics, for both LFV and Shorts. This
demonstrates that PLUM-based retrieval can add unique value on
top of the existing system, even without large embedding tables.
Table 3: Comparison of engagement: Percentage change by
adding PLUM compared to LEM+
Metric
LFV
Shorts
Engaged Users
+0.07%
+0.28%
Panel CTR
+0.76%
+4.96%
Views
+0.80%
+0.39%
Satisfaction
+0.06%
+0.39%
Sample Efficiency. In our studies, PLUM models are extremely
sample efficient. The 900M MoE model trains on roughly 250M
examples every day. By comparison, the traditional LEM trains
on several billion examples per day. This sample efficiency also
makes these models practical for production use, while training
cost per example is much larger. Compared to the LEM, the 900M
MoE model uses < 0.55x flops to train.
3.2
Semantic IDs Ablation Study
In Table 4 we discuss the importance of different changes we intro-
duced to the prior SID [23]. We refer to the prior work as SIDv1,
and refer to our proposed method as SIDv2 in the table. Since each
SID model will result in a different indexing structure, we report
the index uniqueness depicting how many videos in the corpus are
uniquely represented in the SID space along with the final Video
Recall@10 after training a GenRetrieval model on the SID. The
Video Recall@K is determined by calculating the recall of success-
fully retrieving a specific video given PLUM’s top K SID predictions.
When an SID maps to multiple videos, we randomly sample a video
when computing the recall metric.
We conducted ablation experiments to the SIDv2 changes in a
simple setting with a 900M MoE PLUM retrieval model without
CPT and removed watch history in the prompt. As shown in Table 4
, these experiments assessed both the uniqueness of Semantic ID
and downstream generative retrieval VID Recall@10. Results show
that all changes improve generative item retrieval recall. Notably,
incorporating a Co-occurrence alignment task greatly improved
both Semantic ID uniqueness and recall.
3.3
Impact of Continued Pre-training
To measure the importance of the continued pre-training phase, we
evaluate its impact on the training efficiency and retrieval perfor-
mance of the end models for generative retrieval.
3.3.1
Experiment Setup. Our training methodology contains two
stages: continued pre-training and generative retrieval fine-tuning,
SID Model
SID Uniqueness
VID Recall@10
SIDv1 (Baseline)
94.0%
12.3%
SIDv2 (Ours)
96.7%
14.4%
Ablate
Multi-
Resolution
94.8%
13.2%
Ablate
Multi-
Embedding
96.9%
12.8%
Ablate
Co-
occurence
91.8%
12.6%
Table 4: Ablation experiments on SIDv2 changes
each tailored with a specific learning objective and a corresponding
set of hyperparameters. To evaluate the distinct contributions of
each step, we design a controlled 2x2 ablation study. This involves
four model configurations that share the same decoder-only Trans-
former architecture. We use the MoE-900M architecture for this
study. The four models are as follows:
• R1: retrieval SFT (random init). Transformer model is di-
rectly trained on the generative retrieval task with randomly
initialized weights.
• R2: retrieval SFT (LLM init). This model is initialized from
a pre-trained LLM checkpoint, but bypasses the CPT stage.
• CR1: CPT (random init) + retrieval SFT. The model train-
ing follows the two PLUM training stages, but the model
used in CPT is randomly initialized.
• CR2: CPT (LLM init) + retrieval SFT. This represents the
full and intended implementation of our proposed frame-
work.
3.3.2
Experiment Results.
Impact of Continued Pre-training. The main results are summa-
rized in Table 5. Following the scaling study, the performance of
each of the four models is evaluated on a large, held-out next day
dataset, and we report recall@10 as the retrieval metric. There is a
large performance gap between R1 and CR1 (or R2 and CR2), show-
ing the benefit of CPT for retrieval fine-tuning. Furthermore, Figure
3 shows the 8-th day recall@10 and the training loss against train-
ing steps. It’s clear to see that the models with CPT can converge
much faster. Therefore, CPT can benefit the training efficiency of
task-specific fine-tuning, especially when multiple downstream
tasks share the same CPT model.
Table 5: Main generative retrieval performance of the four
model configurations.
Model
Pre-trained
LLM
CPT
Recall@10
(8th-day)
R1
No
No
0.19
R2
Yes
No
0.23
CR1
No
Yes
0.27
CR2
Yes
Yes
0.28

PLUM: Adapting Pre-trained Language Models for Industrial-scale Generative Recommendations
Conference acronym ’XX, June 03–05, 2018, Woodstock, NY
Figure 3: 8-th Day Recall@10 and training loss vs retrieval SFT training step.
Impact of Pre-trained LLM. Now we look into the benefits of train-
ing from a general-purpose LLM versus training from a randomly
initialized state. A consistent pattern emerges from the results in
Table 5: models initialized from a pre-trained LLM consistently
outperform their random initialized counterparts with or without
CPT. We hypothesize that this advantage stems primarily from the
pre-trained LLM’s pre-existing understanding of natural language,
or the general sequence processing capability learned through mas-
sive LLM pre-training is directly useful for recommendation. A
further study of this observation is out of this paper’s scope.
3.4
Scaling Study
In this section, we conduct a scaling study for generative retrieval
models with YouTube production data. We use four different sizes
from the Gemini-1.5 [26] Mixture-of-Experts (MoE) model family:
MoE-110M, MoE-370M, MoE-900M, and MoE-3B (here the size
indicates the number of activated parameters per token) with their
total number of parameters spanning from less than 1B to more
than 10B. In particular, we aim to answer: (1) How does loss scale
with different model size and compute? (2) How does retrieval
metric scale with different model size and compute? (3) What is the
best model size for different compute budgets?
3.4.1
Experiment Setup.
Dataset. Our study was conducted on a production dataset sourced
from a key YouTube surface recommending what videos to watch
next given a current watched video and other contextual signals like
watch history (see Figure 4 in [38]). Here the recommender system
employs a multi-stage architecture, encompassing candidate gen-
eration, pre-ranking, and ranking, among other phases. Our study
centers on the candidate generation stage, evaluating retrieval per-
formance against a comprehensive video corpus containing billions
of videos.
Training and Evaluation. Our input prompt has the following
format: “watch history | user features | context video features",
where watch history is a chronological sequence of watches, each
represented by the concatenation of SID tokens, and other feature
tokens. For this study, input sequence length is fixed at 1,536 tokens,
which can cover roughly 100 most recent watches along with other
features. SFT labels are selected using the next watch on YouTube
employing a downsampling mechanism based on user engagement
and satisfaction signals. SID tokens of the next watch are used
as the prediction targets. We randomly shuffle 7 continuous days
(from July 2025) of data for training. Evaluation is performed on
the subsequent day (Day 8). Our experiments were conducted with
1,024 Google’s v6e Tensor Processing Units (TPUs) each with 32GB
High Bandwidth Memory (HBM). We run 4 trainers in parallel each
taking 256 TPUs.
Hyperparameter Selection. We conducted a pilot study using the
MoE-900M model to determine the model’s sensitivity to global
batch size and learning rates (see Appendix A.1 for details). Based
on the learnings from this pilot study, in each case we set the batch
size to approximately saturate the HBM since it indicates larger
batch sizes are preferable. For learning rate, using 5×10−5 for MoE-
900M as the anchor point, we use slightly larger learning rates for
smaller models (and vice versa) based on our best guess. Note that
unlike scaling law studies in natural language processing (e.g., [11]),
we employ constant learning rates. This approach is preferred for
two reasons: (1) continuous training in production models does not
involve a specific stopping step number, and (2) constant learning
rates allow for perfect and precise interpolation of all intermediate
data points throughout the training process. Hyperparameters of
different model sizes are summarized in Table 6. All models are
warm-started from their corresponding Continued Pre-training
checkpoints (all with Iso-FLOPS 1 × 1022). Continued Pre-training
training FLOPs are excluded from all FLOPs numbers in this section.
Table 6: Scaling Law Study Configurations.
Model Size
Learning Rate
Global Batch Size
MoE-110M
1 × 10−4
25,600
MoE-370M
7 × 10−5
15,360
MoE-900M
5 × 10−5
7,680
MoE-3B
2 × 10−5
3,584
3.4.2
Experiment Results.
Loss Scaling with Compute and Model Size. Figure 4 displays the
correlation between training/evaluation loss (on day 8) and train-
ing Iso-FLOPS. Figure 4a reveals a distinct power-law correlation

Conference acronym ’XX, June 03–05, 2018, Woodstock, NY
He et al.
between Iso-FLOPS and training loss for each model size. As Iso-
FLOPS increase, the optimal model size, representing the training
loss frontier, progressively shifts. This shift begins with MoE-110M
(red line), moves to MoE-370M (green line), then to MoE-900M
(purple line), and is hypothesized to eventually reach MoE-3B (blue
line). Figure 4b illustrates that there is also a power-law correlation
between Iso-FLOPS and evaluation loss for each model size before
it finally begins to saturate, which we attribute to our extensive
training. We also observe that the evaluation loss frontier shifts
toward larger models significantly sooner than the training loss,
suggesting that larger models exhibit superior generalization to
future data distributions.
(a) Iso-FLOPS v.s. training loss.
(b) Iso-FLOPS v.s. eval loss.
Figure 4: Training and evaluation loss variation as we scale
up training Iso-FLOPS.
Retrieval Metric Scaling with Compute and Model Size. Similarly,
in Figure 5 we report the relationship between training/evaluation
Recall@10 (on day 8) and training Iso-FLOPS, with both axes pre-
sented on a logarithmic scale. The findings are similar to those in
Figure 4, except that in Figure 5 the evaluation Recall@10 shows
fewer signs of slowing down to increase, suggesting that model
keeps improving the generation of accurate and complete sequences
that lead to correct document. Additionally, the three smaller mod-
els have processed more than one epoch of data, with MoE-110M
trained as many as 4.24 epochs but still showing no signs of over-
fitting (see Figure 5b).
(a) Iso-FLOPS v.s. training Re-
call@10.
(b) Iso-FLOPS v.s. eval Recall@10.
Figure 5: Training and evaluation Recall@10 variation as we
scale up training Iso-FLOPS.
Optimal Model Size for Fixed Iso-FLOPS Budgets. In Figure 6, we
demonstrate the gradual shifts of optimal model size to larger ones
as we increase the given Iso-FLOPS budgets. Note that our use of
constant learning rate for each model enables us to directly assess
the model performance at each Iso-FLOPS budget using a single
run. Similar to the Chinchilla paper [11], in Figure 6b there is a
peak for most of the Iso-FLOPS budgets we consider.
(a) Training loss for Fixed
Compute Budget.
(b) Eval Recall@10 for Fixed Compute
Budget.
Figure 6: Iso-FLOPS curves. We evaluate training loss and
evaluation Recall@10 at various fixed Iso-FLOPS budgets,
selecting the appropriate number of steps for each model
size.
3.4.3
Limitation Discussion. We note that the MoE-3B model did
not outperform the MoE-900M model for the compute budgets we
considered. Our scaling study is constrained by compute resource.
The suboptimal hyperparameter setup might be a significant con-
tributing factor. For instance, our pilot study indicates a correlation
between larger batch sizes and increased training efficiency for
the same model size. Since we allocate the same training resources
for each model size, using a batch size that saturates the HBMs
(see Table 6), larger models may be at a disadvantage due to their
consequently smaller batch sizes. Indeed, at the end of training,
the MoE-3B model has only processed 0.57 epochs of training data
(about 5B examples), a more than 2x gap from the second largest
model. Our scaling study on the generative retrieval task reveals
that compute-optimal training requires a synchronized scaling of
both training examples and model size.
4
Conclusion and Future Work
We introduced PLUM, a framework for adapting pre-trained LLMs
for large-scale recommendation tasks. Our method enhances item
tokenization with SIDv2, uses a large-scale continued pre-training
stage to align the LLM with user behavior and ground SIDs in text,
followed by a supervised fine-tuning stage to make the model excel
at generative retrieval.
As a launched platform in YouTube, PLUM is able to add unique
value to the current system, while being our first neural model built
without large embedding tables. Our ablations validate the value of
the CPT stage, the benefit of initializing from a pre-trained LLM, and
our proposed SID techniques. This paper is a preliminary study on
aligning LLMs with real-world recommendation systems, opening
future research directions such as applying the PLUM framework
to other tasks like ranking and personalized search, developing new
decoding strategies for candidate diversity, and enabling seamless
generation of SIDs and natural languages.

PLUM: Adapting Pre-trained Language Models for Industrial-scale Generative Recommendations
Conference acronym ’XX, June 03–05, 2018, Woodstock, NY
5
Acknowledgements
We would like to thank the following for their efforts and feed-
back in the application of the techniques described in this paper
to a diverse set of surfaces and use cases (alphabetical order): Sak-
sham Agarwal, Sriraj Badam, Sourabh Bansod, Xilun Chen, Yi Chen,
Bernardo Cunha, Onkar Dalal, Mingyan Gao, Elad Ganmor, Dan-
feng Guo, Pooja Gupta, Ralf Gutsche, Yuan Hao, Chuan He, Lily
He, Yan Huang, Kate Jones, Jiewen Lang, Pengfei Li, Wen Li, Li
Wei, Sean Liew, Qiguang Liu, Sunny Liu, Yang Liu, Jianan Lu, Yi-
long Luan, Shifan Mao, Tomer Margolin, Radwa Metwali, Aniruddh
Nath, Hardik Patel, Amy Pu, Vasin Punyakanok, Murphy Ren, Yuji
Roh, Yuan Shao, Ajay Shekhawat, Fabio Soldo, Yanwei Song, Qian
Sun, Jiaxi Tang, Aahan Tyagi, Diego Uribe, Jacky Wang, Ting Wang,
Siqi Wu, Bo Yan, Shuhao Ye, Likang Yin, Qiao Zhang, Rein Zhang,
Sai Zhang, Vivian Zhang, Yaping Zhang, Gwendolyn Zhao, Zelong
Zhao, Zhile Zou, Dav Zimak. We also thank Mahesh Sathiamoorthy
and Anima Singh for their profound contributions to the conceptu-
alization and initial development of this project.
References
[1] Yuwei Cao, Nikhil Mehta, Xinyang Yi, Raghunandan Keshavan, Lukasz Heldt,
Lichan Hong, Ed H. Chi, and Maheswaran Sathiamoorthy. 2024.
Align-
ing Large Language Models with Recommendation Knowledge.
(2024).
arXiv:2404.00245 [cs.IR] https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.00245
[2] Minmin Chen, Alex Beutel, Paul Covington, Sagar Jain, Francois Belletti, and Ed H.
Chi. 2019. Top-K Off-Policy Correction for a REINFORCE Recommender System.
In Proceedings of the Twelfth ACM International Conference on Web Search and
Data Mining (Melbourne VIC, Australia) (WSDM ’19). Association for Computing
Machinery, New York, NY, USA, 456–464. doi:10.1145/3289600.3290999
[3] Qiwei Chen, Huan Zhao, Wei Li, Pipei Huang, and Wenwu Ou. 2019. Behavior
sequence transformer for e-commerce recommendation in Alibaba. In Proceedings
of the 1st International Workshop on Deep Learning Practice for High-Dimensional
Sparse Data (Anchorage, Alaska) (DLP-KDD ’19). Association for Computing
Machinery, New York, NY, USA, Article 12, 4 pages. doi:10.1145/3326937.3341261
[4] Xiangyi Chen, Kousik Rajesh, Matthew Lawhon, Zelun Wang, Hanyu Li, Hao-
miao Li, Saurabh Vishwas Joshi, Pong Eksombatchai, Jaewon Yang, Yi-Ping
Hsu, Jiajing Xu, and Charles Rosenberg. 2025. PinFM: Foundation Model for
User Activity Sequences at a Billion-scale Visual Discovery Platform. (2025).
arXiv:2507.12704 [cs.LG] https://arxiv.org/abs/2507.12704
[5] Benjamin Coleman, Wang-Cheng Kang, Matthew Fahrbach, Ruoxi Wang, Lichan
Hong, Ed H. Chi, and Derek Zhiyuan Cheng. 2023. Unified embedding: battle-
tested feature representations for web-scale ML systems. In Proceedings of the
37th International Conference on Neural Information Processing Systems (New
Orleans, LA, USA) (NIPS ’23). Curran Associates Inc., Red Hook, NY, USA, Article
2453, 22 pages.
[6] Paul Covington, Jay Adams, and Emre Sargin. 2016. Deep Neural Networks
for YouTube Recommendations. In Proceedings of the 10th ACM Conference on
Recommender Systems (Boston, Massachusetts, USA) (RecSys ’16). Association
for Computing Machinery, New York, NY, USA, 191–198. doi:10.1145/2959100.
2959190
[7] Hamed Firooz, Maziar Sanjabi, Adrian Englhardt, Aman Gupta, Ben Levine,
Dre Olgiati, Gungor Polatkan, Iuliia Melnychuk, Karthik Ramgopal, Kirill Tala-
nine, Kutta Srinivasan, Luke Simon, Natesh Sivasubramoniapillai, Necip Fazil
Ayan, Qingquan Song, Samira Sriram, Souvik Ghosh, Tao Song, Vignesh Kotha-
palli, Xiaoling Zhai, Ya Xu, Yu Wang, and Yun Dai. 2025. 360Brew: A Decoder-
only Foundation Model for Personalized Ranking and Recommendation. (2025).
arXiv:2501.16450 [cs.IR] https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.16450
[8] Yulong Gu, Zhuoye Ding, Shuaiqiang Wang, Lixin Zou, Yiding Liu, and Dawei
Yin. 2020. Deep Multifaceted Transformers for Multi-objective Ranking in Large-
Scale E-commerce Recommender Systems. In Proceedings of the 29th ACM In-
ternational Conference on Information & Knowledge Management (Virtual Event,
Ireland) (CIKM ’20). Association for Computing Machinery, New York, NY, USA,
2493–2500. doi:10.1145/3340531.3412697
[9] Ruidong Han, Bin Yin, Shangyu Chen, He Jiang, Fei Jiang, Xiang Li, Chi Ma,
Mincong Huang, Xiaoguang Li, Chunzhen Jing, Yueming Han, Menglei Zhou,
Lei Yu, Chuan Liu, and Wei Lin. 2025. MTGR: Industrial-Scale Generative Rec-
ommendation Framework in Meituan. (05 2025). doi:10.48550/arXiv.2505.18654
[10] Balázs Hidasi, Alexandros Karatzoglou, Linas Baltrunas, and Domonkos Tikk.
2016.
Session-based Recommendations with Recurrent Neural Networks.
arXiv:1511.06939 [cs.LG] https://arxiv.org/abs/1511.06939
[11] Jordan Hoffmann, Sebastian Borgeaud, Arthur Mensch, Elena Buchatskaya,
Trevor Cai, Eliza Rutherford, Diego de Las Casas, Lisa Anne Hendricks, Johannes
Welbl, Aidan Clark, et al. 2022. Training compute-optimal large language models.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2203.15556 (2022).
[12] Yupeng Hou, Junjie Zhang, Zihan Lin, Hongyu Lu, Ruobing Xie, Julian McAuley,
and Wayne Xin Zhao. 2024. Large Language Models are Zero-Shot Rankers for
Recommender Systems. Springer-Verlag, Berlin, Heidelberg, 364–381. doi:10.
1007/978-3-031-56060-6_24
[13] Yanhua Huang, Yuqi Chen, Xiong Cao, Rui Yang, Mingliang Qi, Yinghao Zhu,
Qingchang Han, Yaowei Liu, Zhaoyu Liu, Xuefeng Yao, Yuting Jia, Leilei Ma, Yinqi
Zhang, Taoyu Zhu, Liujie Zhang, Lei Chen, Weihang Chen, Min Zhu, Ruiwen
Xu, and Lei Zhang. 2025. Towards Large-scale Generative Ranking. (2025).
arXiv:2505.04180 [cs.IR] https://arxiv.org/abs/2505.04180
[14] Clark Mingxuan Ju, Liam Collins, Leonardo Neves, Bhuvesh Kumar, Louis Yufeng
Wang, Tong Zhao, and Neil Shah. 2025. Generative Recommendation with
Semantic IDs: A Practitioner’s Handbook. (2025). arXiv:2507.22224 [cs.IR]
https://arxiv.org/abs/2507.22224
[15] Wang-Cheng Kang and Julian McAuley. 2018. Self-Attentive Sequential Recom-
mendation. arXiv:1808.09781 [cs.IR] https://arxiv.org/abs/1808.09781
[16] Kaiyuan Li, Rui Xiang, Yong Bai, Yongxiang Tang, Yanhua Cheng, Xialong Liu,
Peng Jiang, and Kun Gai. 2025. BBQRec: Behavior-Bind Quantization for Multi-
Modal Sequential Recommendation. (2025). arXiv:2504.06636 [cs.IR] https:
//arxiv.org/abs/2504.06636
[17] Zhuoran Liu, Leqi Zou, Xuan Zou, Caihua Wang, Biao Zhang, Da Tang,
Bolin Zhu, Yijie Zhu, Peng Wu, Ke Wang, and Youlong Cheng. 2022. Mono-
lith: Real Time Recommendation System With Collisionless Embedding Table.
arXiv:2209.07663 [cs.IR] https://arxiv.org/abs/2209.07663
[18] M. Jeffrey Mei, Florian Henkel, Samuel E. Sandberg, Oliver Bembom, and An-
dreas F. Ehmann. 2025. Semantic IDs for Music Recommendation. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2507.18800 (2025). arXiv:2507.18800 [cs.IR]
[19] Maxim Naumov, Dheevatsa Mudigere, Hao-Jun Michael Shi, Jianyu Huang,
Narayanan Sundaraman, Jongsoo Park, Xiaodong Wang, Udit Gupta, Carole-Jean
Wu, Alisson G. Azzolini, Dmytro Dzhulgakov, Andrey Mallevich, Ilia Cherni-
avskii, Yinghai Lu, Raghuraman Krishnamoorthi, Ansha Yu, Volodymyr Kon-
dratenko, Stephanie Pereira, Xianjie Chen, Wenlin Chen, Vijay Rao, Bill Jia, Liang
Xiong, and Misha Smelyanskiy. 2019. Deep Learning Recommendation Model for
Personalization and Recommendation Systems. (2019). arXiv:1906.00091 [cs.IR]
https://arxiv.org/abs/1906.00091
[20] Netflix.
2024.
Foundation
Model
for
Personalized
Recommenda-
tion.
https://netflixtechblog.com/foundation-model-for-personalized-
recommendation-1a0bd8e02d39.
[21] Ming Pang, Chunyuan Yuan, Xiaoyu He, Zheng Fang, Donghao Xie, Fanyi Qu,
Xue Jiang, Changping Peng, Zhangang Lin, Zheng Luo, and Jingping Shao. 2025.
Generative Retrieval and Alignment Model: A New Paradigm for E-commerce
Retrieval. In Companion Proceedings of the ACM on Web Conference 2025 (Sydney
NSW, Australia) (WWW ’25). Association for Computing Machinery, New York,
NY, USA, 413–421. doi:10.1145/3701716.3715228
[22] Gustavo Penha, Edoardo D’Amico, Marco De Nadai, Enrico Palumbo, Alexandre
Tamborrino, Ali Vardasbi, Max Lefarov, Shawn Lin, Timothy Heath, Francesco
Fabbri, and Hugues Bouchard. 2025. Semantic IDs for Joint Generative Search
and Recommendation. (2025). arXiv:2508.10478 [cs.IR] https://arxiv.org/abs/
2508.10478
[23] Shashank Rajput, Nikhil Mehta, Anima Singh, Raghunandan Keshavan, Trung
Vu, Lukasz Heidt, Lichan Hong, Yi Tay, Vinh Q. Tran, Jonah Samost, Maciej
Kula, Ed H. Chi, and Maheswaran Sathiamoorthy. 2023. Recommender systems
with generative retrieval. In Proceedings of the 37th International Conference on
Neural Information Processing Systems (New Orleans, LA, USA) (NIPS ’23). Curran
Associates Inc., Red Hook, NY, USA, Article 452, 17 pages.
[24] Anima Singh, Trung Vu, Nikhil Mehta, Raghunandan Keshavan, Maheswaran
Sathiamoorthy, Yilin Zheng, Lichan Hong, Lukasz Heldt, Li Wei, Devansh Tandon,
Ed Chi, and Xinyang Yi. 2024. Better Generalization with Semantic IDs: A
Case Study in Ranking for Recommendations. In Proceedings of the 18th ACM
Conference on Recommender Systems (Bari, Italy) (RecSys ’24). Association for
Computing Machinery, New York, NY, USA.
[25] Yi Tay, Vinh Q. Tran, Mostafa Dehghani, Jianmo Ni, Dara Bahri, Harsh Mehta,
Zhen Qin, Kai Hui, Zhe Zhao, Jai Gupta, Tal Schuster, William W. Cohen, and
Donald Metzler. 2022. Transformer memory as a differentiable search index. In
Proceedings of the 36th International Conference on Neural Information Processing
Systems (New Orleans, LA, USA) (NIPS ’22). Curran Associates Inc., Red Hook,
NY, USA, Article 1587, 13 pages.
[26] Gemini Team. 2024. Gemini 1.5: Unlocking multimodal understanding across
millions of tokens of context. arXiv preprint arXiv:2403.05530 (2024).
[27] Dongsheng Wang, Yuxi Huang, Shen Gao, Yifan Wang, Chengrui Huang, and
Shuo Shang. 2025. Generative Next POI Recommendation with Semantic ID.
(2025). arXiv:2506.01375 [cs.IR] https://arxiv.org/abs/2506.01375
[28] Ruoxi Wang, Rakesh Shivanna, Derek Cheng, Sagar Jain, Dong Lin, Lichan Hong,
and Ed Chi. 2021. DCN V2: Improved Deep & Cross Network and Practical
Lessons for Web-scale Learning to Rank Systems. In Proceedings of the Web

Conference acronym ’XX, June 03–05, 2018, Woodstock, NY
He et al.
Conference 2021 (Ljubljana, Slovenia) (WWW ’21). Association for Computing
Machinery, New York, NY, USA, 1785–1797. doi:10.1145/3442381.3450078
[29] Orion Weller, Michael Boratko, Iftekhar Naim, and Jinhyuk Lee. 2025. On the
Theoretical Limitations of Embedding-Based Retrieval. arXiv:2508.21038 [cs.IR]
https://arxiv.org/abs/2508.21038
[30] Yi Xu, Moyu Zhang, Chenxuan Li, Zhihao Liao, Haibo Xing, Hao Deng, Jinxin
Hu, Yu Zhang, Xiaoyi Zeng, and Jing Zhang. 2025. MMQ: Multimodal Mixture-
of-Quantization Tokenization for Semantic ID Generation and User Behavioral
Adaptation. (2025). arXiv:2508.15281 [cs.IR] https://arxiv.org/abs/2508.15281
[31] Liu Yang, Fabian Paischer, Kaveh Hassani, Jiacheng Li, Shuai Shao, Zhang Gabriel
Li, Yun He, Xue Feng, Nima Noorshams, Sem Park, Bo Long, Robert D Nowak,
Xiaoli Gao, and Hamid Eghbalzadeh. 2024. Unifying Generative and Dense
Retrieval for Sequential Recommendation. (2024). arXiv:2411.18814 [cs.IR]
https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.18814
[32] Yuhao Yang, Zhi Ji, Zhaopeng Li, Yi Li, Zhonglin Mo, Yue Ding, Kai Chen, Zijian
Zhang, Jie Li, Shuanglong Li, and Lin Liu. 2025. Sparse Meets Dense: Unified
Generative Recommendations with Cascaded Sparse-Dense Representations.
(2025). arXiv:2503.02453 [cs.IR] https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.02453
[33] Yining Yao, Ziwei Li, Shuwen Xiao, Boya Du, Jialin Zhu, Junjun Zheng, Xiangheng
Kong, and Yuning Jiang. 2025. SaviorRec: Semantic-Behavior Alignment for Cold-
Start Recommendation. (2025). arXiv:2508.01375 [cs.IR] https://arxiv.org/abs/
2508.01375
[34] Wencai Ye, Mingjie Sun, Shaoyun Shi, Peng Wang, Wenjin Wu, and Peng Jiang.
2025. DAS: Dual-Aligned Semantic IDs Empowered Industrial Recommender
System. (2025). arXiv:2508.10584 [cs.IR] https://arxiv.org/abs/2508.10584
[35] Xinyang Yi, Ji Yang, Lichan Hong, Derek Zhiyuan Cheng, Lukasz Heldt, Aditee
Kumthekar, Zhe Zhao, Li Wei, and Ed Chi. 2019. Sampling-bias-corrected neural
modeling for large corpus item recommendations. In Proceedings of the 13th
ACM Conference on Recommender Systems (Copenhagen, Denmark) (RecSys ’19).
Association for Computing Machinery, New York, NY, USA, 269–277. doi:10.
1145/3298689.3346996
[36] Jiaqi Zhai, Lucy Liao, Xing Liu, Yueming Wang, Rui Li, Xuan Cao, Leon Gao,
Zhaojie Gong, Fangda Gu, Jiayuan He, Yinghai Lu, and Yu Shi. 2024. Actions
Speak Louder than Words: Trillion-Parameter Sequential Transducers for Gen-
erative Recommendations. In Proceedings of the 41st International Conference
on Machine Learning (Proceedings of Machine Learning Research, Vol. 235), Rus-
lan Salakhutdinov, Zico Kolter, Katherine Heller, Adrian Weller, Nuria Oliver,
Jonathan Scarlett, and Felix Berkenkamp (Eds.). PMLR, 58484–58509.
https:
//proceedings.mlr.press/v235/zhai24a.html
[37] Buyun Zhang, Liang Luo, Yuxin Chen, Jade Nie, Xi Liu, Daifeng Guo, Yanli Zhao,
Shen Li, Yuchen Hao, Yantao Yao, Guna Lakshminarayanan, Ellie Dingqiao Wen,
Jongsoo Park, Maxim Naumov, and Wenlin Chen. 2024. Wukong: Towards a
Scaling Law for Large-Scale Recommendation. (2024). arXiv:2403.02545 [cs.LG]
https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.02545
[38] Zhe Zhao, Lichan Hong, Li Wei, Jilin Chen, Aniruddh Nath, Shawn Andrews,
Aditee Kumthekar, Maheswaran Sathiamoorthy, Xinyang Yi, and Ed Chi. 2019.
Recommending what video to watch next: a multitask ranking system. In Pro-
ceedings of the 13th ACM Conference on Recommender Systems (Copenhagen,
Denmark) (RecSys ’19).
[39] Carolina Zheng, Minhui Huang, Dmitrii Pedchenko, Kaushik Rangadurai, Siyu
Wang, Gaby Nahum, Jie Lei, Yang Yang, Tao Liu, Zutian Luo, Xiaohan Wei,
Dinesh Ramasamy, Jiyan Yang, Yiping Han, Lin Yang, Hangjun Xu, Rong Jin,
and Shuang Yang. 2025.
Enhancing Embedding Representation Stability in
Recommendation Systems with Semantic ID. (2025). arXiv:2504.02137 [cs.IR]
https://arxiv.org/abs/2504.02137
[40] Guorui Zhou, Jiaxin Deng, Jinghao Zhang, Kuo Cai, Lejian Ren, Qiang Luo,
Qianqian Wang, Qigen Hu, Rui Huang, Shiyao Wang, Weifeng Ding, Wuchao Li,
Xinchen Luo, Xingmei Wang, Zexuan Cheng, Zixing Zhang, Bin Zhang, Boxuan
Wang, Chaoyi Ma, Chengru Song, Chenhui Wang, Di Wang, Dongxue Meng, Fan
Yang, Fangyu Zhang, Feng Jiang, Fuxing Zhang, Gang Wang, Guowang Zhang,
Han Li, Hengrui Hu, Hezheng Lin, Hongtao Cheng, Hongyang Cao, Huanjie
Wang, Jiaming Huang, Jiapeng Chen, Jiaqiang Liu, Jinghui Jia, Kun Gai, Lantao
Hu, Liang Zeng, Liao Yu, Qiang Wang, Qidong Zhou, Shengzhe Wang, Shihui He,
Shuang Yang, Shujie Yang, Sui Huang, Tao Wu, Tiantian He, Tingting Gao, Wei
Yuan, Xiao Liang, Xiaoxiao Xu, Xugang Liu, Yan Wang, Yi Wang, Yiwu Liu, Yue
Song, Yufei Zhang, Yunfan Wu, Yunfeng Zhao, and Zhanyu Liu. 2025. OneRec
Technical Report. arXiv:2506.13695 [cs.IR] https://arxiv.org/abs/2506.13695
A
Appendix
A.1
Scaling Pilot Study
As a precursor to our scaling study, we conducted a pilot study
using the MoE-900M model. The goal of this pilot is to determine
the model’s sensitivity to two hyperparameters: global batch size
and learning rates. The outcomes of this pilot will inform the hy-
perparameter selection for the subsequent, more extensive scaling
analysis, ensuring computational resources are utilized effectively.
A.1.1
Experiment Setup. We ran four trainers each with 256 TPUs
and initialized from the (same) pre-trained checkpoint. The pilot ran
for approximately two weeks, a period sufficient to establish clear
performance trends. The “base setup" (Trainer A) uses a constant
learning rate of 1×10−4 and a batch size that saturates the available
HBM. The other configurations systematically vary one of these
two hyperparameters.
Table 7: Pilot Study Configurations with MoE-900M.
Trainer
Learning Rate
Batch Size
A (Base)
1 × 10−4
Saturate HBM
B
1 × 10−4
0.5x Saturate HBM
C
2 × 10−4
Saturate HBM
D
5 × 10−5
Saturate HBM
A.1.2
Results.
Learning Rate Sensitivity. The results indicate that the training
process is tolerant of different learning rates within a reasonable
range. Specifically, the performance difference between the base
learning rate of 1 × 10−4 (Trainer A) and the lower rate of 5 × 10−5
(Trainer D) was not statistically significant within the duration of
the pilot study. However, doubling the learning rate to 2 × 10−4
(Trainer C) resulted in substantially worse performance, indicating
that this rate is likely outside the optimal range for this model and
dataset.
Batch Size Sensitivity. Using a smaller batch size harms training
efficiency. Halving the batch size requires more than double the
training steps to achieve a comparable level of performance. This
highlights the importance of maximizing batch size to the limits of
hardware memory for compute optimal training.
A.2
In-context Learning Examples
Table 8 shows a few examples to demonstrate the in-context learn-
ing capability of the model after CPT with Semantic IDs. The CPT
model based on pre-trained LLM was able to correctly complete
the sentence with a semantically appropriate phrase, by following
the few-shot task description. In contrast, if we apply the same recs
pre-training on a randomly-initialized model, the model struggled
to form a coherent phrase and made distinction between SID and
text tokens.

PLUM: Adapting Pre-trained Language Models for Industrial-scale Generative Recommendations
Conference acronym ’XX, June 03–05, 2018, Woodstock, NY
(a) Example 1
Video Thumbnail
Few-shot Input
The video A1991 ... H10 is about health and pain management.
The video A364 ... H37 is about the basics of quantum physics.
The video A37 ... H25 is about
LLM-Initialized CPT Output
psychology and mind
Randomly-Initialized CPT Output
100% video A252 H7
(b) Example 2
Video Thumbnail
Few-shot Input
Video A37 ... H41 answers the question: do you really need 8 hours of sleep?
Video A1926 ... H8 answers the question: how buy-now pay-later loan business makes profit?
Video A1882 ... H32 answers the question:
LLM-Initialized CPT Output
the impact of language in your life.
Randomly-Initialized CPT Output
- - - 100% -1999-11-16
Table 8: Qualitative examples of few-shot, in-context learning example. Each table shows the text-based prompt and model’s
output from two different initializations. The thumbnails (top) show the visual content for each corresponding Semantic ID in
the prompt.
