Bending the Scaling Law Curve in Large-Scale
Recommendation Systems
Qin Ding1,∗, Kevin Course1, Linjian Ma1, Jianhui Sun1, Ruochen Liu1, Zhao Zhu1, Chunxing Yin1, Wei Li1,
Dai Li1, Yu Shi1, Xuan Cao1, Ze Yang1, Han Li1, Xing Liu1, Bi Xue1, Hongwei Li1, Rui Jian1, Daisy Shi He1,
Jing Qian1, Matt Ma1, Qunshu Zhang1, Rui Li1,∗
1Meta Recommendation Systems
Learning from user interaction history through sequential models has become a cornerstone of large-
scale recommender systems. Recent advances in large language models have revealed promising
scaling laws, sparking a surge of research into long-sequence modeling and deeper architectures for
recommendation tasks. However, many recent approaches rely heavily on cross-attention mechanisms
to address the quadratic computational bottleneck in sequential modeling, which can limit the
representational power gained from self-attention. We present ULTRA-HSTU, a novel sequential
recommendation model developed through end-to-end model and system co-design. By innovating
in the design of input sequences, sparse attention mechanisms, and model topology, ULTRA-HSTU
achieves substantial improvements in both model quality and efficiency. Comprehensive benchmarking
demonstrates that ULTRA-HSTU achieves remarkable scaling efficiency gains—over 5× faster training
scaling and 21× faster inference scaling compared to conventional models—while delivering superior
recommendation quality. Our solution is fully deployed at scale, serving billions of users daily and
driving significant 4% to 8% consumption and engagement improvements in real-world production
environments.
Correspondence: qding@meta.com, ruili@meta.com
Date: February 23, 2026
1
Introduction
Recently, transformer-based sequential modeling has
emerged as a new paradigm for advancing large-scale
recommendation research (Kang and McAuley, 2018;
de Souza Pereira Moreira et al., 2021; Zhai et al.,
2024; Si et al., 2024) in the era of scaled-GPU compu-
tation, Particularly, traditional deep-learning based
recommendation models (DLRM) have focused on
feature interactions (Wang et al., 2017) with carefully
engineered human features. While effective, these
models do not scale efficiently with increased com-
pute (Zhai et al., 2024; Wang et al., 2025) on more
feature interactions or additional layers. In contrast,
transformer-based sequential modeling, which em-
phasizes end-to-end learning from raw user behavior
sequences, can jointly capture both long-term prefer-
ences and short-term intent (Chen et al., 2019) and
exhibit favorable scaling laws with compute: model
performance improves with longer sequences, denser
computation in attention layers, and increased depth
in stacked attention layers.
A prominent line of research in this area is the de-
velopment of Hierarchical Sequential Transduction
Units (HSTU) (Zhai et al., 2024), which introduces
a customized transformer-style architecture designed
to efficiently learn user interests directly from raw
sequential data. HSTU is notable for being the first
to demonstrate favorable scaling properties with a
transformer-like approach specifically tailored for
recommendation systems.
The sequential model-
ing paradigm has since been widely adopted and
further advanced by leading industry practitioners,
including Douyin (Guan et al., 2025; Chai et al.,
2025), Meituan (Han et al., 2025), Alibaba (Wang
et al., 2025), Xiaohongshu (Huang et al., 2025),
Meta (Zhai et al., 2024) and Linkedin (Hertel et al.,
2024), each contributing their own architectural inno-
vations. This broad adoption across major platforms
underscores the effectiveness and impact of sequential
modeling in large-scale recommendation systems.
However, transformer-based recommendation models
including HSTU suffer from a complexity of O(L2)
due to the self-attention mechanism, where L de-
notes the length of the user history sequence. This
quadratic scaling quickly becomes impractical (Za-
1
arXiv:2602.16986v2  [cs.IR]  20 Feb 2026

heer et al., 2020; Vaswani et al., 2017) when attempt-
ing to model user histories containing O(10k) to
O(100k) events, especially in environments where it
is standard to serve billions of recommendations daily
with sub-second latency. To mitigate the quadratic
computational bottleneck, previous approaches from
industry leaders have primarily adopted cross at-
tention (Chai et al., 2025; Guan et al., 2025), us-
ing only ranking candidates or truncated user histo-
ries as queries instead of self-attention, which con-
siders the entire user history. Alternatively, some
methods restrict themselves to shallow architectures,
employing only 2–4 attention layers (Guan et al.,
2025). These strategies fundamentally diverge from
practices in large language models (LLMs). While
these techniques substantially reduce computational
complexity, they may forgo the benefits of powerful
self-attention mechanisms and deeper model archi-
tectures. As demonstrated in our experiments (see
Table 1, 5), self-attention remains superior to cross
attention in industrial settings, especially in terms
of enabling stacked layers or scaled up computation.
This distinction represents a key research finding and
highlights a major difference of our work from prior
solutions: rather than eliminating self-attention, our
work focuses on efficiently harnessing its advantages
from model and system co-optimizations inspired by
DeepSeek-V2 (DeepSeek-AI et al., 2024).
To bend the scaling efficiency of scaled ultra-long
user history modeling, we introduce ULTRA-HSTU
design, the next-generation HSTU model with a com-
prehensive suite of detailed model and system op-
timizations inspired by DeepSeek-V2 (DeepSeek-AI
et al., 2024).
Here, scaling efficiency is formally
defined as the slope of the fitted linear regression
between model performance and computational cost.
Under fixed input sequence configurations, our opti-
mizations achieve more than 21× inference scaling
efficiency and 5× training scaling efficiency relative
to the original HSTU architecture (Zhai et al., 2024).
This advancement effectively bends the scaling curve
of recommendation systems, enabling model quality
to accelerate substantially when scaling computa-
tional resources (see Figure 1).
To validate the proposed solution, we deployed
ULTRA-HSTU, with 18 layers of self-attention over
16k user behavior sequences trained with multiple
hundreds of H100 GPUs, in a large-scale production
environment serving billions of users. It achieves sub-
stantial consumption and engagement improvements
ranging from 4% to 8% as well as a 0.217% uplift in
topline metrics. This demonstrates both the scaling
potential of sequential modeling in the recommenda-
tion domain and the effectiveness of our solutions.
To our knowledge, ULTRA-HSTU stands as one of
the largest sequential models ever deployed in in-
dustry, demonstrating substantially improved scaling
efficiency. We summarize the technical innovations
of ULTRA-HSTU as follows.
Input sequence optimizations. We introduce two com-
plementary designs to optimize original HSTU’s input
sequence processing. First, we effectively merge item
and action representations in sequence designs and
enhance this simplified design with heterogeneous
action encodings. Second, to mitigate inefficiency
caused by cross-rank sequence-length imbalance in
synchronous distributed training, we propose Load-
Balanced Stochastic Length, enforcing a per-rank
compute-load constraint during stochastic length
sampling to reduce stragglers and improve training
throughput by 15%.
Model-system co-design for extremely efficient atten-
tion. We provide an end-to-end model–system co-
design that makes self-attention in HSTU viable for
ultra-long user interaction history modeling in pro-
duction by eliminating the common quadratic and
kernel overheads. On the modeling side, we introduce
a semi-local attention (SLA) mechanism tailored to
the structure of user behavior sequences, achieving
efficient linear sparse attention with O((K1 +K2)·L)
complexity without sacrificing model quality, where
K1 and K2 are local and global window sizes respec-
tively. We show that SLA improves the inference
scaling efficiency more than 5× compared to baseline
models. On the system side, we pair SLA with fine-
tuned, hardware-aware optimizations that remove
practical bottlenecks and improve hardware utiliza-
tion in both training and inference. We co-design a
recsys-tailored mixed-precision framework spanning
16/8/4-bit formats: we keep most of the operations
in BF16 for stability, accelerate the dominant GEMM
computations with FP8, and reduce inference commu-
nication traffic with INT4 embedding quantization.
We further extend FlashAttention V3 (Shah et al.,
2024) ideas, building custom SLA kernels that han-
dle HSTU’s SiLU-based attention and non-standard
masks, and tuning them for heterogeneous GPU archi-
tectures (NVIDIA H100 and AMD MI300) to sustain
high GPU utilization. We also introduce memory sav-
ing optimizations with minimal efficiency overhead
that significantly cut HBM footprint, enabling ultra-
long sequence training. Together, these co-designed
components enable 70% training and 50% inference
throughput gains over the same model without these
system optimizations. Note that to maximize end-to-
end performance, we focus on end-to-end throughput
(how fast it finishes training/inference for a fixed num-
ber of examples) given the same model performance,
2

250
500
750
1000
1250
1500
Train GFLOP / item
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
C-NE
HSTU, 0.00028C+0.032
ULTRA-HSTU, 0.0015C
0.14
0
1000
2000
3000
4000
Inference GFLOP / item
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
C-NE
HSTU, 9.8e
05C+0.013
ULTRA-HSTU, 0.0021C
0.15
Figure 1 Overall Performance: Scaling performance with respect to train (left) and inference (right) FLOP. Compared
to vanilla HSTU, ULTRA-HSTU has more than 5.3× training scaling efficiency and 21.4× inference scaling efficiency.
instead of purely optimizing GPU utilization.
Dynamic topological model designs. Scalability in rec-
ommendation models extend beyond sequence length,
vertical scaling through stacking additional layers
yields additional benefits, particularly by increasing
capacity via residual connections (He et al., 2016).
However, naively stacking HSTU with SLA incurs a
cost of O(DL) where D is the depth of the model.
Building on the insight that different user signals
yield different predictive values, we propose two novel
topological designs to focus computation on most im-
portant signals. Specifically, we propose 1) Attention
Truncation, which runs the first N1 layers on the full
sequence, then selects a shorter valuable segment and
applies additional N2 layers only on that segment;
and 2) Mixture of Transducers (MoT), which pro-
cesses heterogeneous behavioral signals as multiple
sequences with separate transducers and fuses their
representations, enabling targeted capacity/compute
allocation to high-value signals rather than forcing
everything to compete in one timeline. In our experi-
ments, both topological designs significantly improve
performance and efficiency tradeoff that further up-
scales our scaling capabilities.
2
Related Work
Traditional industrial-scale recommendation models
usually follow the deep learning recommendation
model framework (Naumov et al., 2019; Mudigere
et al., 2022) that focuses modeling user and item fea-
ture interactions. The past few years have witnessed
a paradigm shift in how large-scale recommendation
models are trained in industry. Rather than rely-
ing on cross-user-item features, much of the recent
progress in recommendation systems has been driven
by learning from user interaction histories. Deep in-
terest networks (DIN) (Zhou et al., 2018) were one
of the classic short-sequence learning methods. SAS-
Recs (Kang and McAuley, 2018) is a traditional trans-
former implementation for recommendations. HSTU
(Zhai et al., 2024) was later proposed to perform
better than traditional transformer-based models in
recommendations with target-aware predictions. By
capturing the implicit and explicit information learnt
from raw user interaction history, HSTU has removed
its dependency on human-crafted user-item features
and exhibits a favorable scaling law.
Building on this line of work, our paper focuses on
further improving the scaling behavior, aiming to
achieve better models at reduced computational cost.
Closely related to our work is research focused on
improving the training and inference efficiency of se-
quential models. With notable breakthroughs in na-
tive sparse attention (NSA) (Yuan et al., 2025), linear
sparse attention has become the focus to deploy scal-
able big models (Beltagy et al., 2020). In addition to
exploring sparse attention, Stacked Target-to-History
Cross Attention (STCA) (Guan et al., 2025) was pro-
posed to only run query focused on ranking targets,
which significantly reduces the model complexity but
introduces performance regressions due to the sim-
plified attention mechanism without self-attention.
Although STCA achieves linear complexity, more
expensive pre-attention projections were introduced
in STCA to improve the performance with a big
computational overhead, making it less effective in
capturing information from shorter sequences (see
Table 3 for details).
3

Sequential
Features
Non- Sequential
Features
Feature Pre-processor
STU
STU
...
Multi-task Module
...
...
STU x 
STU x 
...
...
Truncate
(d) Attention Truncation
STU
(a) Recommendation Model
+
History
Candidate
Item features
Action encoding
(c) Semi-local Attention
(b) Sequence feature preprocessor
ULTRA-HSTU
Figure 2 Model design overview: (a) General recommendation model design. (b) Input sequence optimizations with
action-aware designs (c) Semi-local attention mask with linear complexity (d) Attention truncation for dynamic
topological designs.
3
Background
As illustrated in Figure 2 (a), a typical recommender
system takes input features and trains on multi-
task classification problems. Formally, it learns a
multi-task model M to output a probability ˆyk =
M(X, xj) ∈[0, 1] for a candidate xj across different
prediction tasks yk (e.g., like, video completion, com-
ment), and rank the candidates based on predicted
scores. Here X is the input features of user. We
optimize the model by minimizing the cross-entropy
loss between predictions ˆyk and ground truth labels
yk collected from logs. Throughout the paper, we
use L to denote the general sequence length, X to
denote the input features. Most generative ranking
paradigm models the input X as a sequence of em-
beddings (see context below), and leverage attention
layers to learn probabilities from those sequential
embeddings.
Input
As shown in Figure 2 (a), a recommender
uses a feature preprocessor to transfer different input
features into a sequence of embeddings, including:
user interaction history (UIH) sequence records a se-
quence of items a specific user interacted with and
the corresponding actions (e.g., like, comment, video
completion, etc.) and context (e.g., timestamp). Raw
item IDs (and its multi-modal representation), action
types are represented by d-dimensional learnable em-
beddings via embedding table lookups. For user i,
we denote its UIH as Xi = {Ii, Ai}, where the item
embeddings in UIH are Ii = {Ii,j}Li
j=1 ∈RLi,d, and
action embeddings are Ai = {ai,j}Li
j=1 ∈RLi,d and Li
is the total length of user i’s UIH. Non-sequential fea-
tures include user-side features, such as country, user
language, etc., and item-side features, such as sparse
(e.g., raw ID of item) and dense (e.g., click-through
rate for this item) features. Those user-side features
could be summarized into context-embeddings and
put at the beginning of sequential UIH (Zhai et al.,
2024). Those item-side features could be summarized
as item-embeddings and inserted into sequences as
target-side embeddings (Zhang et al., 2025).
Model
Given a sequence of embeddings, modern rec-
ommender leverages transformer-style models. One
typical arch is Hierarchical Sequential Transduction
Units (HSTU) (Zhai et al., 2024), which shows sig-
nificant wins on top of vanilla transformers in recom-
mender systems by the following modifications:
normaliation: X = Norm(Z)
(1)
pre-attention: U, Q, K, V = ϕ1(f1(X))
(2)
attention: A =
 ϕ2(QKT ) ⊙M

V
(3)
post-attention: Y = f2 (Norm (A) ⊙U)
(4)
residual connection: Z = Y + Z
(5)
4

Here ⊙denotes an elementwise product, f1 and f2
are MLPs for pre-attention and post-attention projec-
tions respectively, ϕ1 and ϕ2 are SiLU activations. In
Equation 3, a causal mask M is applied to maintain
the temporal relationship between sequential items.
Input embeddings Z are normalized before passing
to later operations, each layer connects the output
from the previous layer Y by standard residual con-
nections (He et al., 2016).
While HSTU shows favorable scaling laws for rec-
ommendation systems, we believe the scaling curve
can be further optimized via a model and system co-
design approach similar to Deepseek-V2 (DeepSeek-
AI et al., 2024) for LLM. Thus, we introduce ULTRA-
HSTU on top of the original HSTU, and the ideas
discussed below can be generally applied to other at-
tention architectures for sequential recommendation.
4
ULTRA-HSTU: Extremely Efficient
High-performance Sequential En-
coder
To bend the scaling curve of vanilla HSTU, we make
significant improvements over three key areas below:
1) input sequence optimization reduces the effective
sequence length at the source; 2) a recommender-
tailored sparse attention computation achieves linear
complexity; 3) dynamic topological design further
enables favorable depth scaling without paying full-
sequence cost in every layer.
Beyond theoretical
complexity reductions, ULTRA-HSTU is model and
hardware co-designed for practical efficiency in large-
scale distributed training and inference recommenda-
tion settings. Together, we present ULTRA-HSTU
below with more than 21× inference scaling efficiency
and 5× training scaling efficiency compared to vanilla
HSTU. The general architecture of the model design
is detailed in Figure 2 and we present each compo-
nents in the following sections.
4.1
Input Sequences Optimization
We first propose an efficient action encoding method
to effectively shorten the input sequence length
by 2× and thus improve the efficiency by 4× in
attention computation.
Recall that the vanilla
HSTU (Zhai et al., 2024) interleaves items and ac-
tions, formulating the sequence input for user i as
{Ii,1, ai,1, Ii,2, ai,2, . . . , Ii,Li, ai,Li}. While this gener-
ally supports both retrieval and ranking stages, it
causes the sequence in ranking to double the actual
UIH length. Directly combing actions and items may
leak the action information of candidates to be pre-
dicted. Thus we mask the action embeddings in all
candidate positions to be ai,j = 0d if j is a candidate
to be ranked in recommender systems. We explored
different ways of combining action and item embed-
dings and choose to simply add the embeddings of
items and actions, formulating the sequential input of
user i as Xi = {xi,j}Li
j=1, where xi,j = Ii,j + ai,j. We
hypothesis that gradient can be more easily passed
through action encodings in this method. Further,
we enhance the construction of action embeddings
in ULTRA-HSTU by exploring heterogeneous action
encodings, from both implicit and explicit signals
and side information through user contextual fea-
tures. Importantly, this design reduces the sequence
length to be half as the UIH designed in the vanilla
HSTU (Zhai et al., 2024) without sacrificing model
quality, allowing ULTRA-HSTU to achieve substan-
tial performance improvements while preserving its
scalability.
We further designed load-balanced stochastic length
algorithm to improve training throughput by 15%. In
(Zhai et al., 2024), Stochastic Length (SL) randomly
selects users and samples their history sequences to a
predefined threshold length of L
α
2 during the training
stage, where α ∈(1, 2] is a tunable hyper-parameter
of SL. This reduces the computation complexity from
O(L2) to O(Lα) during training and is proved to
be able to generalize in inference with the full se-
quence length. Similar ideas have been adapted in
other papers (Guan et al., 2025) as well. However, in
a distributed training environment, this sampling
process occurs independently on each rank, lead-
ing to significant variations in the input and out-
put load (represented by the sum of user sequence
lengths) on each rank. Such load imbalances could
greatly reduce training efficiency in our synchronous
distributed training framework. We propose load-
balanced stochastic length (LBSL) algorithm, a vari-
ant of SL that explicitly controls per-rank compute
to reduce stragglers. Define the load of a rank in a
batch as P
u∈rank nγ
u, where nu is the sequence length
for request u and γ captures the superlinear cost of
HSTU (γ ∈(1, 2)). Load balance is defined as the
ratio between the maximum and minimum rank loads
within a world size. LBSL runs in three stages: it first
performs a short warmup using standard stochastic
length to estimate a global target load l; then per-
forms constrained sampling that adaptively selects an
unsampled set so each rank’s realized load matches l
as closely as possible, while preserving SL’s bias to-
ward leaving shorter sequences unsampled via weights
pu and weighted sampling-without-replacement plus
a greedy fill; finally, it applies periodic recalibration of
l on a configurable interval to track slow shifts in the
5

production length distribution. When recalibrated
every batch, LBSL matches standard SL’s average
load but redistributes sampling across ranks (sam-
pling more on heavy-load ranks and less on light-load
ranks) to reduce stragglers without harming quality.
Details are in Algorithm 1 in Appendix.
4.2
Model-System Co-Design for Efficiency
4.2.1
Semi-Local Attention Design
We introduce a novel sparse attention mechanism
called Semi-Local Attention (SLA) which achieves
linear complexity in attention computation, signifi-
cantly improving the inference scaling efficiency of
ULTRA-HSTU by 5×. Recall in Equation 3 that
vanilla HSTU models (Zhai et al., 2024) calculate
full causal self-attention mask with the following for-
mula, incurring quadratic cost when model scales the
sequence length.
A(X) = ϕ2

Q(X)K(X)T 
⊙MV (X),
(6)
where M ∈RL×L is a causal attention mask with
Mi,j = 1 only when j ≤L −i, ϕ2 is SiLU in HSTU.
Figure 3 Attentions masks. Left plot: full causal self-
attention masks. Right plot: Semi-local attention masks.
In large-scale recommender systems, the length of
UIH quickly accumulates and goes beyond 10k, lead-
ing to an undeployable situation in real-world ranking.
Motivated by the intrinsic sparse and dynamic at-
tention in both LLM (Yuan et al., 2025) and Recsys,
we develop a semi-local attention mechanism that
leverages its nature of sparsity, with a focus on both
long-term and local patterns. We define two hyper-
parameters, local window size K1 and global window
size K2.
Local window size controls the window
length of local pattern that will be counted into the
attention mask, and global window size focuses on
the latest UIH attention patterns, capturing users’
long-term interests. The resulting attention mask is
defined as the following in semi-local attention (see
Figure 3 for illustration):
Mi,j =





1
if L −K1 ≤i + j ≤L
1
if j ≤K2 and j ≤L −i
0
otherwise
(7)
With this design, the resulting computational com-
plexity in attention is reduced to linear as O((K1 +
K2)·L), significantly improving model efficiency when
sequence length L scales beyond 10k in large-scale
recommender systems. In contrast to native sparse
attention (NSA) from DeepSeek (Yuan et al., 2025)
where only local window is applied, we will show in
Section 5 that both the design of local and global win-
dows are necessary, which was especially pronounced
in recommenders where users’ long-term behaviors
are critical.
4.2.2
System optimizations
Mixed-Precision Training and Inference
Large-scale
recommendation models are bottlenecked by a com-
bination of dense compute including General Matrix
Multiplications (GEMMs) and data movement, espe-
cially embedding lookup and host-to-device transfer
in serving. To make ULTRA-HSTU efficient end-to-
end, we co-design a recsys-tailored mixed-precision
framework spanning 16/8/4-bit formats: we keep
most of the operations in BF16 for stability, accel-
erate the dominant GEMM computations with FP8,
and reduce inference communication traffic with INT4
embedding quantization. In both offline and online
experiments, this mixed-precision stack yields 10%
training and 40% serving throughout improvement
while preserving model accuracy. We develop a cus-
tomized FP8 stack (shown in Figure 4) for HSTU
that targets two practical bottlenecks simultaneously:
improving Tensor Core utilization on NVIDIA H100
to raise achieved TFLOP/s on the dense compute,
and reducing the overhead of FP8 quantization/scal-
ing that can otherwise become memory-bandwidth
bound.
Each HSTU layer contains two GEMMs:
a projection that maps input embeddings X into
the U, V, Q, K tensors prior to attention, and a post-
attention projection that transforms the normalized
and gated attention output to produce the layer out-
put. We execute both GEMMs in FP8, while pre-
serving all remaining operations in BF16, improv-
ing throughput without sacrificing numerical robust-
ness. Simply switching GEMMs to FP8 is inefficient:
naive FP8 pipelines need an additional operation on
scaling/quantization and layout preparation which
can offset the expected speedup. To ensure FP8 ac-
celerates end-to-end training/inference, we develop
fused kernels that combine row-wise scaling compu-
tation and quantization with the preceding layer-
6

Figure 4 Mixed precision computation framework. We
fuse the scaling/quantization steps with the preceding
kernels.
normalization kernels (Equations 1 and 4) for jagged
embeddings, eliminating extra passes over memory
and reducing quantization overhead. We further de-
velop high-performance Triton FP8 GEMM kernels
specifically for the post-attention projection. In this
path, the projection output must be accumulated
with a 2D residual tensor (Equation 5), so we fuse
this residual accumulation directly into the GEMM
epilogue. This is not efficiently supported by Py-
Torch GEMM kernels, which typically assume a 1D
bias vector.
Our Triton FP8 kernel natively sup-
ports 2D bias, while leveraging persistent scheduling,
TMA, warp specialization, and epilogue pipelining
to sustain high throughput without excessive register
pressure. In addition to FP8 GEMM, our mixed pre-
cision framework incorporates 4-bit quantization for
embedding movement during serving. Further details
are provided in Appendix D.
Efficient SLA Kernels for Heterogenous Hardware
Attention operations are a bottleneck for HSTU.
In (Zhai et al., 2024), the kernel is implemented with
Triton (Tillet et al., 2019) using the FlashAttention
V2 algorithm (Dao, 2024). We improve this baseline
by adopting the FlashAttention-V3 algorithmic de-
sign (Shah et al., 2024) to aggressively overlap data
movement and compute, while customizing the kernel
to HSTU’s non-standard attention (pointwise SiLU
activation and SLA masking). We implemented this
design on both NVIDIA H100 and AMD MI300x, al-
lowing heterogeneous service and delivery 2× speedup
over the FlashAttention-V2 baseline on both plat-
forms.
On NVIDIA H100, we implement CUDA
kernel families for both full and semi-local HSTU at-
tention using FlashAttention-3-style pipelining. We
also implement an analogous kernel on AMD MI300x
via Composable Kernel (AMD, 2025). Since MI300x
lacks H100 features leveraged by FlashAttention-3
(e.g., TMA and warp-specialized async execution), we
introduce MI300x-native optimizations: XCD-aware
scheduling to exploit the 8-chiplet topology, LDS lay-
outs to reduce shared-memory bank conflicts, and
explicit VMEM/MFMA interleaving via scheduling
barriers—and obtain a 2× speedup over the Triton
kernel baseline.
Memory Saving with Minimal Overhead
The stan-
dard attention implementation incurs high GPU mem-
ory pressure in the forward pass, which becomes a pri-
mary bottleneck for ultra-long sequence training. We
carefully designed the following optimizations to save
memory and preserve training efficiency. First, we
introduce selective activation rematerialization spe-
cialized for ULTRA-HSTU. Specifically, we skip sav-
ing six large forward tensors and reconstruct them in
backward with minimal recompute, including reusing
saved layer-norm statistics for normed X, rerunning
GEMM to recover U, Q, K, V , and computing the
intermediate Y inside the fused gated normalization
kernel.
This is substantially lighter than generic
checkpointing, with only 5% overhead compared to
the baseline without any activation recomputation.
The detailed algorithm is in Listing 1 in Appendix.
Second, we remove that overhead by eliminating gra-
dient concatenation for dU, dQ, dK, dV , cutting mem-
ory traffic and kernel overhead in backward. Overall,
ULTRA-HSTU achieves about 67% per-layer memory
reduction with no regression in efficiency. With a 512
embedding dimension size, 256 batch size, and 3k
sequence length and BF16 data type, the technique
reduces the HBM memory usage per layer from 7GB
to 2.3GB. Thrid, we employ a fully jagged tensor
implementation for end-to-end training, eliminating
the need for padding to dense tensors and signifi-
cantly reducing memory usage. We present detailed
efficiency benchmark experiments in Appendix E.
4.3
Dynamic Topological Design
In addition to scaling sequence length, depth scaling
are crucial for model performance. Naively stacking
ULTRA-HSTU layers with SLA each processing the
full sequences incurs a computational cost of O(DL)
where D is the model depth. In real-world applica-
tions, when L scales to 10k sequence lengths, stacking
more and more model layers introduces significant
training, memory and inference costs even when lin-
ear sparse attention are already in place. However,
the necessity to be able to handle millions of requests
in large-scale recommender systems within millisec-
onds remains the same. One natural question is that
7

200
400
600
800
Train GFLOP / item
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
C-NE
HSTU, 0.00099C+0.039
HSTU-SLA, 0.0027C
0.16
200
400
600
800
Inference GFLOP / item
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
C-NE
HSTU, 0.0011C
0.067
HSTU-SLA, 0.0056C
0.44
100
200
Inference GFLOP / item
0.0
0.2
0.4
C-NE
HSTU, 0.0023C
0.069
AT, 0.0079C
0.31
Figure 5 Ablation study on scaling: training (left) and inference (middle) of SLA, inference (right) of attention
truncation (AT).
do we really need attention on full sequences in every
layer when we stack more and more layers? Moti-
vated by this, we propose two efficient topological
designs below to further improve the scaling law of
ULTRA-HSTU.
Attention Truncation. Motivated by the importance of
users’ most recent interaction history, after stacking
N1 layers of HSTU with full sequence length L, we
propose to select a segment of length L′ from the
full sequence, and stack another N2 layers of HSTU
on the selected UIH segment only. Many methods
can be applied to select this UIH segment, including
1) truncating latest UIH of length L′; 2) applying
Stochastic Length (SL) (Zhai et al., 2024) on top
of the first SL to select sequence length of L′; 3)
inserting a compression modules after the first N1
layers to compress the full sequence to length L′. In
practice, we found that simply truncating the latest
UIH segment gives the best model performance (See
Figure 2 (d)).
Mixture of Transducers. Recommendation models in-
herently process multiple input sequences, as user
engagement signals from various sources and types
are typically recorded separately. Aggregating all
user signals into a single input sequence for a unified
encoder compresses heterogeneous user interactions
into one timeline can dilute sparse, high-value en-
gagements among dense, implicit signals and force
all signals to compete for limited sequence capacity.
To address this challenge, we introduce the Mixture
of Transducers (MoT) paradigm.
MoT processes
multiple distinct input sequences through separate
transducers and subsequently fuses the learned user
embeddings. This approach enables the model to
capture different types of user behaviors over vary-
ing time spans, resulting in a more granular and
effective representation of diverse and sparse engage-
ment patterns. Crucially, MoT allows for flexible
allocation of computational resources across input
sequences. For instance, the model can assign deeper
layers and greater capacity to high-value sequences,
while reducing resources for well-understood or less
critical sequences. This targeted allocation of com-
putation budget ensures that the model focuses its
capacity on the most meaningful user interactions,
thereby improving overall recommendation quality
and efficiency tradeoff.
Both of the proposed topological designs achieve sig-
nificantly better model quality and cost tradeoff than
vanilla HSTU. The design of Attention Truncation
and MoT are compatible with each other and can
be combined into one model. In real applications,
the choice of the topological designs depends on the
most concerning metrics (efficiency or model quality)
in the system. In our experimental setups reported
below (Section 5), we choose attention truncation
due to its simplicity and powerful model quality and
efficiency tradeoff. We defer the study of MoT to
Appendix A.
5
Experimental Results
Throughout this section, we measure model quality
by normalized entropy (NE), defined as the model’s
cross-entropy divided by the cross-entropy by purely
making predictions based on mean frequency of posi-
tive labels (He et al., 2014). Formally, NE is defined
in the following equation:
NE = −1
N
PN
i=1(yi log pi + (1 −yi) log(1 −pi))
−p log p −(1 −p) log(1 −p)
,
(8)
where N is the number of training examples, yi ∈
{0, 1} is the label for example i, pi is the model predic-
tion for example i, and p = PN
i=1 yi/N. The model is
better if the NE is lower. Specifically, we measure the
8

NE improvement of a consumption task (e.g., video
view complete) and an engagement task (e.g., share),
denoted as C-NE and E-NE. Here, we choose to report
NE to follow the original HSTU paper (Zhai et al.,
2024) and the best practices internally (He et al.,
2014). Based on our experiences and experiments,
AUC and other metrics move in a consistent direction
(better or worse) and at similar scales with NE. We
omit reporting them due to space limitations.
We evaluate our model against several strong base-
lines, categorized by their ability to model short- or
long-range user behaviors. Short-sequence methods
include DIN (Zhou et al., 2018) and SASRecs (Kang
and McAuley, 2018). Long-sequence methods include
vanilla HSTU (Zhai et al., 2024), STCA (Guan et al.,
2025). In addition, we also compare our methods to
an internally optimized transformer which has ad-
ditional projections and normalization to stabilize
training and avoid unexpected metric regressions in
the classic transformers for recommender systems.
5.1
Industrial Dataset Benchmark
5.1.1
Dataset
We first report our model’s performance using
industry-scale production datasets sourced from in-
ternal, large-scale, real-world recommender systems.
The dataset consists of a subset of online user in-
teraction histories, totaling over 6 billion samples,
each featuring ultra-long user interaction sequences
with lengths ranging from 3, 072 to 16, 384 events.
To ensure temporal consistency and prevent future
data leakage, we employ a chronological data split:
the initial 85% of the data is allocated for training,
while the remaining 15% is reserved for evaluation.
Please note that, we use LBSL for all the experiments
on the industrial dataset. For example, when raw
sequence length in inference is 16, 384, training se-
quence length is around 4, 400 after applying LBSL.
Based on (Zhai et al., 2024), comparing with models
trained with full sequence length, LBSL has mini-
mum NE differences while achieving significant train-
ing speed up. This is the reason that our inference
FLOP per example is higher than training FLOP per
example. For more detailed sequence length compar-
isons during training and inference, please see Table
6 in Appendix.
5.1.2
Overall Performance
Table 1 shows the results on all methods with se-
quence length capped at 3, 072. We tune the model
depth/parameters to allow approximately matched
FLOP on all methods. We observe that ULTRA-
HSTU significantly outperforms all other methods.
STCA which heavily relies on cross attention for lin-
ear complexity performs worse than ULTRA-HSTU
due to lacking the power from self-attention. Note
that model is worse when ∆NE is positive. Based
on our experience, an improvement in the range of
0.03% −0.05% is regarded as significant and can lead
to substantial gains in online metrics.
Model
∆C-NE
∆E-NE
ULTRA-HSTU
0%
0%
HSTU
+0.43%
+0.04%
STCA
+0.94%
+0.74%
Transformer
+0.57%
+0.59%
DIN
+1.41%
+1.91%
SASRecs
+1.12%
+1.28%
Table 1 Model performance on Industrial datasets.
5.1.3
Scaling Law
To analyze the scaling behavior, we fix the input
sequence designs for both ULTRA-HSTU and vanilla
HSTU and report the model performance on C-NE
and TFLOP comparisons with improved model archi-
tecture and topological designs. We vary the number
of modeling layers from 6 to 18 and sequence length
L ∈{3072, 8192, 16384} while fixing model dimen-
sionality at d = 512. Table 2 reports detailed model
performance and TFLOP numbers.
As sequence
length and the number of layers increase, we saw
significantly improved efficiency and C-NE metrics
from ULTRA-HSTU. In Figure 1, we present the
C-NE gain relative to the baseline model as a linear
regression of computational cost for both ULTRA-
HSTU and vanilla-HSTU. Notably, by comparing the
slope of the fitted linear function, ULTRA-HSTU
demonstrates a remarkable advancement in scaling
efficiency, achieving a 5.3× improvement in training
scaling efficiency and an outstanding 21.4× enhance-
ment in inference scaling efficiency.
5.2
Open source dataset
Methods such as ULTRA-HSTU and STCA (Guan
et al., 2025) are designed for industrial-scale recom-
menders where user histories span tens of thousands
of interactions. To demonstrate the general appli-
cability of our method beyond these extreme-length
settings, we evaluate on public open-source bench-
marks on KuaiRand1 with much shorter sequences
of length 256. Table 3 shows that our approach still
1https://kuairand.com/
9

Model
Sequence length
# layers
∆C-NE
Training TFLOP
Inference TFLOP
HSTU
3072
6
0.0%
0.085
0.118
8192
11
−0.34%
0.735
2.756
16384
10
−0.44%
1.584
4.692
ULTRA-HSTU
3072
14
−0.00%
0.119 (↑40.0%)
0.070 (↓40.7%)
8192
18
−0.58%
0.414 (↓43.7%)
0.337 (↓87.8%)
16384
18
−0.78%
0.639 (↓59.7%)
0.436 (↓90.7%)
Table 2 Scaling of ULTRA-HSTU on industrial datasets.
achieves the best NE at the lowest computational
cost in both training and inference stages even under
short-sequence scenarios. STCA struggles to adapt to
shorter sequences due to the expensive pre-attention
computational overhead.
Model
Training
Inference
NE
TFLOP
TFLOP
STCA
626.49
208.75
0.8689
Transformer
802.39
267.46
0.8688
SASRec
550.92
176.51
0.8804
DIN
505.08
168.36
0.8685
HSTU
617.78
198.80
0.8676
ULTRA-HSTU
504.41
166.41
0.8626
Table 3 Comparisons on KuaiRand benchmark.
5.3
Ablations on Scaling Studies
We first briefly mention the impact from input se-
quence optimizations and then ablate the scaling
efficiency of SLA and attention truncation by fixing
the input sequence designs for both vanilla HSTU
and ULTRA-HSTU. A detailed description of our
approach for analyzing scaling laws is in Appendix F.
5.3.1
Input sequence optimization
Removing item-action interleaving in input sequence
design shrinks sequence length by half and signifi-
cantly reduces training FLOP by 32.5% and inference
FLOP by 63.5% given a UIH sequence with length
3, 072. In the meantime, heterogeneous construction
of action embeddings brings 0.45% C-NE gain com-
pared to baselines. LBSL achieves 15% speedup in
the world size of 512, demonstrating its effectiveness
in accelerating the training of large-scale sequential
models.
5.3.2
Semi-Local Attention (SLA)
In Figure 8 we plot the C-NE vs the total FLOP with
or without SLA enabled. The SLA enabled model
achieves significantly improved scaling compared to
the vanilla HSTU, with 2.7× training scaling effi-
ciency and 5.1× inference scaling efficiency. We note
that both local window size K1 and global window
size K2 are necessary in the design of SLA, which sig-
nificantly differs from NSA (Yuan et al., 2025) where
only local sliding window is enabled. Moreover, we
find that global window size K2 is more important
than local window size K1. For example, if we set
K1 = 0 and only enable global window in SLA, we
observe 0.03% C-NE regression. If we set K2 = 0 and
only enable local window in SLA, we observe 0.35%
C-NE regression.
5.3.3
Dynamic Topological Design
When stacking more layers in vanilla HSTU, we ob-
serve significant performance gains but with unaf-
fordable training and inference costs. Figure 8 (right
figure) plots the scaling curve comparing the perfor-
mance when stacking HSTU layers with Attention
Truncation (AT) and purely stacking HSTU layers
with full sequences. This experiments are conducted
with n1 layers of sequence length 3072 in inference
(around 1110 in training after SL) and n2 layers
of sequence length 512, with n1 = 3, 6, 9, 12 and
n2 = 0, 3, 6, 9. Attention truncation are more effec-
tive when the sequence length is longer. With LBSL
enabled in model training, efficiency savings from at-
tention truncation at sequence length around 1110 is
not significant enough, but we see much better results
in inference (3.4× more effective inference scaling)
with longer sequences at length 3072.
5.4
Online A/B Testing
We showcase the results validated by multiple rigor-
ous 30-day online A/B tests to evaluate the effective-
ness of ULTRA-HSTU on a large-scale production
video serving platform that reaches billions of users
daily. We report three different kinds of online met-
rics: 1) online consumption metrics (C-metric), such
as watch time, video completion, etc. 2) online en-
10

gagement metrics (E-metric), such as likes, comments,
shares, etc. 3) online topline metrics, such as number
of visits, daily active users, etc.
We upgrade the existing production model from
vanilla HSTU to ULTRA-HSTU. The results, sum-
marized in Table 4, reveal substantial and highly
impressive improvements across key metrics. ULTRA-
HSTU delivers significant 4.11% gains in online con-
sumption metrics and 2% to 8% gains in engagement
metrics depending on the engagement types. Most
notably, we observed remarkable enhancements in
critical “top-line” metrics, which are strong indicators
of overall platform health. In our system, even single-
digit percentage improvements in engagement and
consumption are considered major breakthroughs.
Furthermore, increases of 0.05% and 0.01% in Top-
line 1 and 2, respectively, are regarded highly sig-
nificant at Meta. Collectively, these results provide
compelling evidence for the efficacy and potential of
the proposed ULTRA-HSTU approach. To the best
of our knowledge, this is the largest model tested in
our recommendation platform, achieving one of the
largest impacts in the past few years.
User Value
Percentage of gain
Online C-Metric 1
4.11%
Online E-Metric 2
2.27%
Online E-Metric 3
8.2%
Online E-Metric 3
4.34%
Online Top-line 1
0.217%
Online Top-line 2
0.037%
Table 4 One-month online gain over production baseline.
6
Conclusions
In this work, we present ULTRA-HSTU, a novel ap-
proach of end-to-end model and system co-design
that delivers substantial improvements in scaling effi-
ciency of sequential modeling in the recommendation
domain. Our contributions can be summarized as
follows: 1) as our key research findings, we show
self-attention is still superior to cross-attention and
scaling up computation on attention layers and se-
quence length continue improving model performance;
2) as our key tech innovations, we presented multiple
modeling and system co-optimizations from LBSL in
input processing, semi local attention, heterogeneous
hardware kernel optimization with mixed precision
training/inference, to dynamic model topological de-
sign, and achieved 5× training and 21× inference
scaling efficiency. 3) as our key sharing with the
recommendation industry, we deployed our ULTRA-
HSTU, with 18 layers of self-attention over 16k user
sequences trained on hundreds of H100 GPUs, into a
large-scale production environment with significant
impacts, demonstrating the promising direction of
scaling up sequential models in recommendation and
the effectiveness of our proposed innovations.
7
Acknowledgement
This work would not be possible without contribu-
tions from the collaborators and supports from the
leaderships as follows (alphabetical order): Hao Lin,
Hong Yan, Jiaqi Zhai, Jie Hua, Shilin Ding, Yu He.
References
AMD. Composable kernel. https://github.com/ROCm/
composable_kernel, 2025.
Iz Beltagy, Matthew E Peters, and Arman Cohan.
Longformer: The long-document transformer. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2004.05150, 2020.
Zheng Chai, Qin Ren, Xijun Xiao, Huizhi Yang, Bo Han,
Sijun Zhang, Di Chen, Hui Lu, Wenlin Zhao, Lele
Yu, et al. Longer: Scaling up long sequence model-
ing in industrial recommenders. In Proceedings of the
Nineteenth ACM Conference on Recommender Systems,
pages 247–256, 2025.
Qiwei Chen, Huan Zhao, Wei Li, Pipei Huang, and Wenwu
Ou. Behavior sequence transformer for e-commerce
recommendation in alibaba. In Proceedings of the 1st
international workshop on deep learning practice for
high-dimensional sparse data, pages 1–4, 2019.
Tri Dao. Flashattention-2: Faster attention with better
parallelism and work partitioning. In 12th International
Conference on Learning Representations, ICLR 2024,
2024.
Gabriel de Souza Pereira Moreira, Sara Rabhi, Jeong Min
Lee, Ronay Ak, and Even Oldridge. Transformers4rec:
Bridging the gap between nlp and sequential/session-
based recommendation.
In Proceedings of the 15th
ACM conference on recommender systems, pages 143–
153, 2021.
DeepSeek-AI, Aixin Liu, Bei Feng, Bin Wang, Bingx-
uan Wang, Bo Liu, Chenggang Zhao, Chengqi Dengr,
Chong Ruan, Damai Dai, Daya Guo, Dejian Yang, Deli
Chen, Dongjie Ji, Erhang Li, Fangyun Lin, Fuli Luo,
Guangbo Hao, Guanting Chen, Guowei Li, H. Zhang,
Hanwei Xu, Hao Yang, Haowei Zhang, Honghui Ding,
Huajian Xin, Huazuo Gao, Hui Li, Hui Qu, J. L. Cai,
Jian Liang, Jianzhong Guo, Jiaqi Ni, Jiashi Li, Jin
Chen, Jingyang Yuan, Junjie Qiu, Junxiao Song, Kai
Dong, Kaige Gao, Kang Guan, Lean Wang, Lecong
Zhang, Lei Xu, Leyi Xia, Liang Zhao, Liyue Zhang,
11

Meng Li, Miaojun Wang, Mingchuan Zhang, Minghua
Zhang, Minghui Tang, Mingming Li, Ning Tian, Pan-
pan Huang, Peiyi Wang, Peng Zhang, Qihao Zhu,
Qinyu Chen, Qiushi Du, R. J. Chen, R. L. Jin, Ruiqi
Ge, Ruizhe Pan, Runxin Xu, Ruyi Chen, S. S. Li,
Shanghao Lu, Shangyan Zhou, Shanhuang Chen, Shao-
qing Wu, Shengfeng Ye, Shirong Ma, Shiyu Wang,
Shuang Zhou, Shuiping Yu, Shunfeng Zhou, Size Zheng,
T. Wang, Tian Pei, Tian Yuan, Tianyu Sun, W. L.
Xiao, Wangding Zeng, Wei An, Wen Liu, Wenfeng
Liang, Wenjun Gao, Wentao Zhang, X. Q. Li, Xi-
angyue Jin, Xianzu Wang, Xiao Bi, Xiaodong Liu,
Xiaohan Wang, Xiaojin Shen, Xiaokang Chen, Xiaosha
Chen, Xiaotao Nie, Xiaowen Sun, Xiaoxiang Wang,
Xin Liu, Xin Xie, Xingkai Yu, Xinnan Song, Xinyi
Zhou, Xinyu Yang, Xuan Lu, Xuecheng Su, Y. Wu,
Y. K. Li, Y. X. Wei, Y. X. Zhu, Yanhong Xu, Yan-
ping Huang, Yao Li, Yao Zhao, Yaofeng Sun, Yaohui
Li, Yaohui Wang, Yi Zheng, Yichao Zhang, Yiliang
Xiong, Yilong Zhao, Ying He, Ying Tang, Yishi Piao,
Yixin Dong, Yixuan Tan, Yiyuan Liu, Yongji Wang,
Yongqiang Guo, Yuchen Zhu, Yuduan Wang, Yuheng
Zou, Yukun Zha, Yunxian Ma, Yuting Yan, Yuxiang
You, Yuxuan Liu, Z. Z. Ren, Zehui Ren, Zhangli Sha,
Zhe Fu, Zhen Huang, Zhen Zhang, Zhenda Xie, Zhewen
Hao, Zhihong Shao, Zhiniu Wen, Zhipeng Xu, Zhongyu
Zhang, Zhuoshu Li, Zihan Wang, Zihui Gu, Zilin Li,
and Ziwei Xie. Deepseek-v2: A strong, economical,
and efficient mixture-of-experts language model, 2024.
URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.04434.
Lin Guan, Jia-Qi Yang, Zhishan Zhao, Beichuan Zhang,
Bo Sun, Xuanyuan Luo, Jinan Ni, Xiaowen Li, Yuhang
Qi, Zhifang Fan, et al.
Make it long, keep it fast:
End-to-end 10k-sequence modeling at billion scale on
douyin. arXiv preprint arXiv:2511.06077, 2025.
Ruidong Han, Bin Yin, Shangyu Chen, He Jiang, Fei
Jiang, Xiang Li, Chi Ma, Mincong Huang, Xiaoguang
Li, Chunzhen Jing, et al. Mtgr: Industrial-scale gen-
erative recommendation framework in meituan.
In
Proceedings of the 34th ACM International Conference
on Information and Knowledge Management, pages
5731–5738, 2025.
Kaiming He, Xiangyu Zhang, Shaoqing Ren, and Jian
Sun. Deep residual learning for image recognition. In
Proceedings of the IEEE conference on computer vision
and pattern recognition, pages 770–778, 2016.
Xinran He, Junfeng Pan, Ou Jin, Tianbing Xu, Bo Liu,
Tao Xu, Yanxin Shi, Antoine Atallah, Ralf Herbrich,
Stuart Bowers, et al. Practical lessons from predict-
ing clicks on ads at facebook. In Proceedings of the
eighth international workshop on data mining for online
advertising, pages 1–9, 2014.
Lars Hertel, Neil Daftary, Fedor Borisyuk, Aman Gupta,
and Rahul Mazumder. Efficient user history modeling
with amortized inference for deep learning recommen-
dation models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2412.06924, 2024.
Jordan Hoffmann, Sebastian Borgeaud, Arthur Men-
sch, Elena Buchatskaya, Trevor Cai, Eliza Ruther-
ford, Diego de Las Casas, Lisa Anne Hendricks, Jo-
hannes Welbl, Aidan Clark, et al. Training compute-
optimal large language models.
arXiv preprint
arXiv:2203.15556, 2022.
Yanhua Huang, Yuqi Chen, Xiong Cao, Rui Yang, Min-
gliang Qi, Yinghao Zhu, Qingchang Han, Yaowei
Liu, Zhaoyu Liu, Xuefeng Yao, and others.
To-
wards Large-scale Generative Ranking. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2505.04180, 2025.
Wang-Cheng Kang and Julian McAuley. Self-attentive se-
quential recommendation. In 2018 IEEE international
conference on data mining (ICDM), pages 197–206.
IEEE, 2018.
Jared Kaplan, Sam McCandlish, Tom Henighan, Tom B
Brown, Benjamin Chess, Rewon Child, Scott Gray,
Alec Radford, Jeffrey Wu, and Dario Amodei. Scal-
ing laws for neural language models. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2001.08361, 2020.
Dheevatsa Mudigere, Yuchen Hao, Jianyu Huang, Zhihao
Jia, Andrew Tulloch, Srinivas Sridharan, Xing Liu,
Mustafa Ozdal, Jade Nie, Jongsoo Park, et al. Software-
hardware co-design for fast and scalable training of deep
learning recommendation models. In Proceedings of the
49th Annual International Symposium on Computer
Architecture, pages 993–1011, 2022.
Maxim Naumov, Dheevatsa Mudigere, Hao-Jun Michael
Shi, Jianyu Huang, Narayanan Sundaraman, Jongsoo
Park, Xiaodong Wang, Udit Gupta, Carole-Jean Wu,
Alisson G Azzolini, et al. Deep learning recommen-
dation model for personalization and recommendation
systems. arXiv preprint arXiv:1906.00091, 2019.
Jay Shah, Ganesh Bikshandi, Ying Zhang, Vijay Thakkar,
Pradeep Ramani, and Tri Dao.
Flashattention-3:
Fast and accurate attention with asynchrony and low-
precision. Advances in Neural Information Processing
Systems, 37:68658–68685, 2024.
Zihua Si, Lin Guan, ZhongXiang Sun, Xiaoxue Zang,
Jing Lu, Yiqun Hui, Xingchao Cao, Zeyu Yang, Yichen
Zheng, Dewei Leng, et al.
Twin v2: Scaling ultra-
long user behavior sequence modeling for enhanced
ctr prediction at kuaishou. In Proceedings of the 33rd
ACM International Conference on Information and
Knowledge Management, pages 4890–4897, 2024.
Philippe Tillet, Hsiang-Tsung Kung, and David Cox. Tri-
ton: an intermediate language and compiler for tiled
neural network computations. In Proceedings of the 3rd
ACM SIGPLAN International Workshop on Machine
Learning and Programming Languages, pages 10–19,
2019.
Ashish Vaswani, Noam Shazeer, Niki Parmar, Jakob
Uszkoreit, Llion Jones, Aidan N Gomez, Łukasz Kaiser,
and Illia Polosukhin. Attention is all you need. Ad-
12

vances in neural information processing systems, 30,
2017.
Chunqi Wang, Bingchao Wu, Zheng Chen, Lei Shen,
Bing Wang, and Xiaoyi Zeng. Scaling Transformers
for Discriminative Recommendation via Generative
Pretraining. arXiv preprint arXiv:2506.03699, 2025.
Ruoxi Wang, Bin Fu, Gang Fu, and Mingliang Wang.
Deep & cross network for ad click predictions.
In
Proceedings of the ADKDD’17, pages 1–7. 2017.
Jingyang Yuan, Huazuo Gao, Damai Dai, Junyu Luo,
Liang Zhao, Zhengyan Zhang, Zhenda Xie, Yuxing Wei,
Lean Wang, Zhiping Xiao, et al. Native sparse atten-
tion: Hardware-aligned and natively trainable sparse
attention. In Proceedings of the 63rd Annual Meeting of
the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume
1: Long Papers), pages 23078–23097, 2025.
Manzil Zaheer, Guru Guruganesh, Kumar Avinava Dubey,
Joshua Ainslie, Chris Alberti, Santiago Ontanon, Philip
Pham, Anirudh Ravula, Qifan Wang, Li Yang, et al.
Big bird: Transformers for longer sequences. Advances
in neural information processing systems, 33:17283–
17297, 2020.
Jiaqi Zhai, Lucy Liao, Xing Liu, Yueming Wang, Rui
Li, Xuan Cao, Leon Gao, Zhaojie Gong, Fangda Gu,
Jiayuan He, et al. Actions speak louder than words:
trillion-parameter sequential transducers for genera-
tive recommendations. In Proceedings of the 41st In-
ternational Conference on Machine Learning, pages
58484–58509, 2024.
Zhaoqi Zhang, Haolei Pei, Jun Guo, Tianyu Wang, Yufei
Feng, Hui Sun, Shaowei Liu, and Aixin Sun. Onetrans:
Unified feature interaction and sequence modeling with
one transformer in industrial recommender.
arXiv
preprint arXiv:2510.26104, 2025.
Guorui Zhou, Xiaoqiang Zhu, Chenru Song, Ying Fan,
Han Zhu, Xiao Ma, Yanghui Yan, Junqi Jin, Han
Li, and Kun Gai.
Deep interest network for click-
through rate prediction. In Proceedings of the 24th
ACM SIGKDD international conference on knowledge
discovery & data mining, pages 1059–1068, 2018.
13

A
Selection of Topological Designs
Both attention truncation and MoT achieve signifi-
cantly better model quality and cost tradeoff than
vanilla HSTU. The design of Mixture of Transducers
and Attention Truncation are compatible with each
other. In this section, we detail the advantage of
each design. In real applications, the choice of the
topological designs depend on the most concerning
metrics (efficiency or model quality) in the system.
Mixture of Transducers (MoT). MoT delivers signifi-
cant NE gains on engagement tasks (E-NE in Table 8)
while achieving competitive training/inference FLOP
savings. By decoupling heterogeneous signals into
dedicated modules, MoT mitigates the signal com-
petition that occurs when diverse input signals are
constrained within a single module with limited se-
quence length.
Specifically, we employ two specialized HSTU mod-
ules: one for engagement events and one for consump-
tion events, denoted as E-seq and C-seq in Table 8.
Each module processes shorter sequences compared
to its single-HSTU counterpart, yet achieves richer
signal representation through careful sequence com-
position. For instance, the dedicated engagement
module, despite having a shorter sequence, captures
significantly richer engagement history by mitigating
competition with dense consumption signals.
We
further optimize computational efficiency by tailor-
ing the compute allocation per module; the shorter
sequences result in substantially lighter attention op-
erations, yielding significant FLOP savings during
both training and inference.
# layers
∆C-NE
∆E-NE
Cross-attention
3
0.00%
0.00%
6
-0.09%
-0.05%
9
-0.14%
-0.15%
12
-0.14%
-0.17%
Self-attention
3
0.00%
0.00%
6
-0.29%
-0.27%
9
-0.38%
-0.47%
12
-0.46%
-0.65%
Table 5 Depth scaling of cross-attention vs self-attention
Attention Truncation. In Table 9, we list complimen-
tary data of attention truncation with increasing
number of layers of vanilla HSTU only or number
of attention truncation layers. With deeper model
layers, we observe significant NE wins in both con-
sumption and engagement tasks, but at the cost
of bigger inference FLOP burden. With attention
truncation, we achieve significantly better tradeoff
between model quality and computation costs. For
example, comparing 3-layer vanilla HSTU stacked by
another 6-layer attention truncation vs only 6-layer
vanilla HSTU, attention truncation achieves on par
C-NE metrics and better E-NE metrics with 3% train
TFLOP savings and 38% inference FLOP savings.
B
Diminishing Return of Depth Scal-
ing in Cross-Attention
We show in Table 5 that self-attention is more pow-
erful than cross attention in terms of model depth
scaling. With a sequence length around 3072, stack-
ing more layers of cross-attention shows saturated
model performance with 9 layers, while self-attention
exhibits consistently better model quality with in-
creased number of layers.
C
Algorithm
of
Load
Balanced
Stochastic Length
Raw UIH length
3072
8192
16384
Train with SL
1110
2600
4400
Inference without SL
3072
8192
16384
Table 6 Average UIH sequence length in training with SL
and inference without SL.
(m, k & n)
Bias-Fused
FP8
Bias-Split
FP8
BF16
(1M, 512)
414
236
292
(1M, 1K)
734
468
410
(250K, 512)
414
238
281
(250K, 1K)
721
466
399
Table 7 Benchmarking FP8 GEMM kernel efficiency with
2D bias. Performance is reported in TFLOP/s under
various m, n, k on NVIDIA H100. Bias-Fused FP8 uses
our Triton kernel with native 2D bias support, whereas
Bias-Split FP8 uses Torch FP8 GEMM plus a separate
bias addition since it does not support the 2D bias case.
Details of Load Balanced Stochastic Length (LBSL)
are listed in Algorithm 1. With LBSL enabled in our
experiments in Section 5, the training and inference
sequence length when varying raw sequence length
are listed in Table 6.
D
Other System Optimizations
14

Model Component
Raw Seq Length
∆C-NE
∆E-NE
Training TFLOP
Inference TFLOP
MoT vs 3k HSTU
2k C-seq and 1k E-seq
+0.01%
−1.00%
0.138 (↑6%)
0.076 (↓53%)
MoT vs 16k HSTU
10k C-seq and 3k E-seq
+0.05%
−0.30%
0.872 (↓45%)
1.03 (↓69%)
Table 8 Performance of MoT. MoT significantly improves E-NE metrics. (C-seq denotes the consumption sequences
and E-seq denotes the engagement sequences.)
Model
Setup
Train TFLOP
Inference TFLOP
∆C-NE
∆E-NE
Vanilla HSTU
3-layer HSTU
0.0427
0.0561
0.00%
0.00%
6-layer HSTU
0.0851
0.1180
-0.29%
-0.27%
9-layer HSTU
0.1284
0.1821
-0.38%
-0.47%
12-layer HSTU
0.1705
0.2438
-0.46%
-0.65%
Attention Truncation (AT)
3-layer HSTU + 3-layer AT
0.0626
0.0646
-0.21%
-0.24%
3-layer HSTU + 6-layer AT
0.0825
0.0729
-0.25%
-0.31%
3-layer HSTU + 9-layer AT
0.1020
0.0795
-0.33%
-0.35%
Table 9 Scaling comparison between vanilla HSTU and attention truncation at 3072 sequence length. Model is better
when ∆NE is negative.
Mix-precision serving
In model serving, sparse em-
bedding features can dominate host-to-device transfer
time under long sequences. We therefore quantize em-
bedding tensors to INT4 and keep them in quantized
form across the embedding lookup and transfer path,
reducing transfer volume and alleviating the commu-
nication bottleneck. In addition, we use groupwise
INT4 that leverages group-specific scaling factors to
significantly reducing quality loss compared to a sin-
gle scale per row, while still delivering substantial
throughput gains.
E
Efficiency Benchmarks
In this section, we provide benchmarks to test the
system optimizations presented in Section 4.2.2.
E.1
Mixed Precision Benchmarks
FP8 precision efficiency
We evaluate the perfor-
mance impact of FP8 on the GEMMs in both the
pre-attention and post-attention blocks, and sum-
marize the speedups in Table 10. A key difference
between the two blocks is the bias format in GEMM:
the pre-attention GEMM uses a 1D bias, while the
post-attention GEMM uses a 2D bias. Since FP8
GEMM with 1D bias is already supported by Torch,
we directly use the Torch kernel for the pre-attention
GEMM. In contrast, Torch FP8 GEMM does not
natively support the 2D bias case needed by post-
attention; therefore, we develop a customized Triton
FP8 GEMM kernel with native 2D-bias fusion, and
report its kernel-level efficiency in Table 7.
Part
Quant-Fused
FP8
Quant-Separate
FP8
Pre-attn
3.19X
2.34X
Post-attn
1.99X
1.01X
Table 10 Performance comparison between FP8 GEMM
with standard quantization versus FP8 GEMM with quan-
tization fused into preceding kernels, reporting speedup
of each approach relative to BF16.
In Table 7, we benchmark the operation D = AB+C
where A ∈Rm×k, B ∈Rk×n, and C ∈Rm×n, using
matrix dimensions (m, k, n) that reflect our model
workload. In particular, we emphasize large lead-
ing dimensions m induced by jagged, variable-length
sequences, which dominate the compute cost in prac-
tice. The results show that fusing the 2D bias di-
rectly into the FP8 GEMM (Bias-Fused FP8) pro-
vides up to 1.75× speedup compared to using Torch
FP8 GEMM followed by a separate bias addition
(Bias-Split FP8), motivating our Triton implementa-
tion for post-attention.
Finally, Table 10 reports the speedup of the complete
pre-attention and post-attention parts when switch-
ing from BF16 to FP8. We observe strong end-to-end
gains from two sources: (1) higher-performance FP8
GEMM kernels (including our 2D-bias Triton ker-
nel for post-attention), and (2) additional savings
from fusing quantization into the kernels that pre-
cede GEMM, which reduces extra memory traffic
and kernel launch overhead compared to performing
quantization as a separate step.
15

Algorithm 1 Load-Balanced Stochastic Length
Require: World size R; warmup steps Twarm; recalibration interval Trecal; load exponent γ ∈(1, 2); SL
parameter α; SL sampling length ℓSL; batch size b.
1: Initialize target load ¯ℓ←0 and ℓr ←0 for all ranks r ∈{1, . . . , R}
2: for training step t = 1, 2, . . . do
3:
for all ranks r ∈{1, . . . , R} in parallel do
4:
Receive local batch Br with raw lengths {nu}u∈Br
5:
Compute ℓr ←ℓr+StandardSL_Loads(Br; α; γ)
▷pre-truncation proxy
6:
if t ≤Twarm then
7:
Apply StandardSL(Br; α) to truncate examples
8:
else
9:
Ur ←∅; s ←0
▷Ur: untruncated set
10:
Compute weights pu ←SLWeight(nu; α) for all u ∈Br
11:
Draw a weighted random permutation π of Br without replacement using pu
12:
for u in order π do
13:
if s + (nγ
u −ℓγ
SL) ≤¯ℓ−b · ℓγ
SL then
14:
Ur ←Ur ∪{u}; s ←s + (nγ
u −ℓγ
SL)
15:
end if
16:
end for
17:
Keep all u ∈Ur unsampled
18:
For each u ∈Br \ Ur, apply the same sampling rule as StandardSL(u; α)
19:
end if
20:
end for
21:
if t = Twarm then
22:
All-reduce to obtain mean load ¯ℓ←
1
RTwarm
PR
r=1 ℓr
23:
ℓr ←0 for all ranks r ∈{1, . . . , R}
24:
else if (t mod Trecal) = 0 then
25:
All-reduce to obtain mean load ¯ℓ←
1
RTrecal
PR
r=1 ℓr
26:
ℓr ←0 for all ranks r ∈{1, . . . , R}
27:
end if
28: end for
Int4 quantization efficiency
The impact of Int4
sparse embedding quantization on model serving ef-
ficiency is summarized in Table 11. Applying 4-bit
quantization to sparse embeddings reduces host-to-
device data-transfer latency by around 40% and in-
creases peak queries per second (QPS) by over 20%.
In addition, we observed negligible differences in on-
line model accuracy after applying 4-bit quantization.
Dtype
Latency
Peak QPS
Int8
13ms
3.6K
Int4
7.9ms (↓40%)
4.4K (↑22%)
Table11 Impact of sparse embedding datatypes over model
serving efficiency performances. The latency of embed-
ding lookup is measured at 3.5K QPS, and peak QPS
refers to the maximum QPS at a end-to-end latency bud-
get of 80ms. All results are collected from a single H100
host.
E.2
Attention Kernel Benchmarks
We present attention-kernel efficiency benchmarks
in Figure 6, comparing our optimized implementa-
tion against the FlashAttention-V2 baseline on both
NVIDIA H100 and AMD MI300 GPUs. We evaluate
two settings: semi-local attention (SLA) and causal
attention.
On H100, for causal attention, the ULTRA implemen-
tation sustains over 520 TFLOP/s at a 16K sequence
length, delivering a 1.64× speedup over the base-
line.
For SLA, across a range of batch sizes and
sequence lengths, our kernels consistently achieve
higher throughput and provide up to a 2.5× speedup.
On MI300, Figure 6 reports forward-pass kernel per-
formance. Our ULTRA kernels deliver up to a 1.51×
speedup over the FlashAttention-V2-based implemen-
tation. Relative to ULTRA on H100, ULTRA on
MI300 achieves up to a 0.92× throughput ratio at
16K sequence length under small batch sizes. These
results highlight our targeted efforts to enable efficient
16

Listing 1 ULTRA-HSTU pseudocode with activation rematerialiation.
1
c l a s s
HSTULayerFunction ( torch . autograd . Function ) :
2
@staticmethod
3
def
forward ( ctx ,
x , norm_w,
linear_w_1 ,
gated_norm_w ,
linear_w_2 ) :
4
normed_x = norm_forward (x , norm_w)
5
u ,
v ,
q ,
k = silu_forward (addmm(normed_x ,
linear_w_1 ) )
6
attn = attention_forward (q ,
k ,
v)
7
y = gated_norm_forward ( attn ,
u ,
gated_norm_w)
8
out = addmm(y ,
linear_w_2 ,
bias=x)
9
ctx . save_for_backward (x ,
u ,
attn , norm_w,
linear_w_1 ,
gated_norm_w ,
linear_w_2 )
10
return
out
11
@staticmethod
12
def
backward ( ctx ,
dout ) :
13
x ,
u ,
attn , norm_w,
linear_w_1 ,
gated_norm_w ,
linear_w_2 = ctx .
saved_tensors
14
y = gated_norm_forward ( attn ,
u ,
gated_norm_w) # rematerialize y
15
normed_x = norm_forward (x , norm_w)
16
u ,
v ,
q ,
k = silu_forward (addmm(normed_x ,
linear_w_1 ) ) # rematerialize u, v
, q , k
17
dy = addmm( dout ,
linear_w_2 .T)
18
d_linear_w_2 = addmm(y .T,
dout )
19
dx = dout
20
dattn ,
du ,
d_gated_norm_w = gated_norm_backward (dy ,
attn ,
u ,
gated_norm_w)
21
dq ,
dk ,
dv = attention_backward ( dattn ,
q ,
k ,
v)
22
duqkv = concat (du ,
dq ,
dk ,
dv )
23
uqkv = concat (u ,
q ,
k ,
v)
24
d_addmm = silu_backward ( duqkv ,
uqkv )
25
d_normed_x = addmm(d_addmm,
linear_w_1 .T)
26
d_linear_w_1 = addmm(normed_x .T, d_addmm)
27
dx , d_norm_w = norm_backward (d_normed_x ,
x , norm_w)
28
dx += dout
29
return dx , d_norm_w,
d_linear_w_1 ,
d_gated_norm_w ,
d_linear_w_2
AMD inference for large-scale models.
F
Scaling Laws for ULTRA-HSTU
In this section we analyze the compute scaling laws
for the approaches proposed in the present work. To
do so we assume that the NE as a function of the
compute follows a power-law of the form (Kaplan
et al., 2020; Hoffmann et al., 2022),
L(C) = αC−β,
(9)
where we have have assumed NE metrics L(C) →0
as computational budget C →∞. In general this
will cause us to systematically underestimate the true
scaling law exponent by the factor,
ˆβ = β∗

1 −L∞
L

(10)
where ˆβ indicates our estimate for the true parameter
β∗and L∞is the irreducible error on the data. The
reason for this assumption is that it allows us to
keep α and β linear in log-log space without having
to estimate the irreducible error term. As we show
below, this assumption also ensures that estimates
for scaling improvement are conservative.
Consider the estimated scaling ratio between two
models,
ˆβ1
ˆβ2
= β∗
1
β∗
2
(1 −L∞/L1)
(1 −L∞/L2) = β∗
1
β∗
2
R,
(11)
where R is a correction factor to the scaling ratio
estimate. The scaling ratio tells us how much model 1
improves on model 2’s scaling curve. When L1 < L2
then R < 1. When model 1 also achieves improved
scaling (which is always true for models with lower
loss for the compute regions we consider) our estimate
for the the scaling ratio is conservative.
Interpretingscalinglawexponentimprovements. While
improvements to scaling law exponents may appear
modest at first glance, their impact compounds dra-
17

(a) Forward, H100
(b) Forward, H100
(c) Forward, Mi300
(d) Forward, H100
(e) Forward, H100
(f) Forward, Mi300
(g) Backward, H100
(h) Backward, H100
(i) Backward, H100
(j) Backward, H100
Figure 6 Performance comparison of ULTRA vs Baseline for both H100 and Mi300. ULTRA uses FlashAttention-V3-
style algorithm, while baseline uses Triton implementation with FlashAttention-V2-style algorithm. (a)(d)(g)(h): full
attention TFLOP/s for forward and backward attention kernels on H100. (b)(e)(i)(j): Speedup of ULTRA SLA over
two baselines on H100: full attention with ULTRA implementation and SLA with baseline implementation. (c)(f):
Speedup of ULTRA SLA over three baselines on Mi300.
18

102
102.2
102.4
Train log(GFLOP / item)
0.676
0.678
0.680
0.682
0.684
C-NE
HSTU, 0.69C
0.0022
ULTRA-HSTU, 0.71C
0.0068
102.2
102.6
103
103.5
Inference log(GFLOP / item)
0.676
0.678
0.680
0.682
0.684
C-NE
HSTU, 0.69C
0.0017
ULTRA-HSTU, 0.7C
0.006
Figure 7 Overall Compute Scaling Law: We compare the scaling performance of ULTRA-HSTU against vanilla
HSTU with respect to training FLOP (left) and inference FLOP (right). ULTRA-HSTU achieves 3.09× and 3.52×
improvements in the training and inference compute scaling law exponents, respectively.
102
102.2
102.4
102.6
102.8
Train log(GFLOP / item)
0.676
0.678
0.680
0.682
0.684
C-NE
HSTU, 0.7C
0.0056
HSTU-SLA, 0.71C
0.0078
102.2
102.6
Inference log(GFLOP / item)
0.676
0.678
0.680
0.682
0.684
C-NE
HSTU, 0.7C
0.0059
HSTU-SLA, 0.72C
0.01
101.7
102
102.2
102.4
Inference log(GFLOP / item)
0.710
0.712
0.714
C-NE
HSTU, 0.73C
0.0044
AT, 0.74C
0.0079
Figure 8 Ablation study on scaling: Semi-Local Attention (SLA) improves the training scaling exponent by 1.39× (left)
and the inference scaling exponent by 1.69× (middle). Attention Truncation Scaling Law: combining self-attention
and attention truncation mechanisms yields a 1.8× improvement in inference compute scaling (right).
matically as compute budgets grow. To see this, con-
sider two models with scaling laws L1(C) = αC−β1
and L2(C) = αC−β2, where β1 = kβ2 for some im-
provement factor k > 1. To achieve the same loss
with model 2 that model 1 achieves with compute C,
we require,
C2 = Ck,
(12)
meaning that the compute advantage grows as a
polynomial with the scaling ratio. For example, a 2×
improvement in the scaling exponent implies that the
baseline model requires quadratically more compute
to match the improved model’s performance.
Overall ULTRA-HSTU scaling performance. In Figure 7,
we plot the fitted compute scaling laws for ULTRA-
HSTU versus HSTU as a function of train and infer-
ence FLOP, respectively. We see that ULTRA-HSTU
improves the scaling exponent by 2.08× compared
to HSTU with respect to training FLOP and 4.59×
with respect to inference FLOP.
Semi-Localattentionscalingperformance. We next iso-
late the contribution of Semi-Local Attention (SLA)
to the overall scaling improvements. Figure 8 show
the scaling performance of SLA with respect to train-
ing and inference FLOP. Our approach achieves an
improvement to the scaling law exponent of 1.39×
and 1.69× with respect to training and inference
FLOP, respectively.
Attention truncation scaling performance. Finally, we
analyze the scaling behavior of our attention trunca-
tion approach. While improvements to the scaling
law exponent with respect to training FLOP are mi-
nor, Figure 8 shows we achieve an improvement to
the inference FLOP exponent of 1.8×.
19
