UniRec: Bridging the Expressive Gap between Generative and
Discriminative Recommendation via Chain-of-Attribute
Ziliang Wang†, Gaoyun Lin†, Xuesi Wang, Shaoqiang Liang, Yili Huang
Weijie Bian∗, Li Zhang, Mingchen Cai, Jian Dong, Guanxing Zhang
Shopee
{ziliang.wang,gaoyun.lin,xuesi.wang,shaoqiang.liang,liam.huang}@shopee.com
{jason.bian,li.zhangzl,mark.cai,jian.dong,andy.zhanggx}@shopee.com
Abstract
Generative Recommendation (GR) reframes retrieval and ranking
as autoregressive decoding over Semantic IDs (SIDs), unifying the
multi-stage pipeline into a single model. Yet a fundamental expres-
sive gap persists: discriminative models score items with direct
feature access, enabling explicit user–item crossing, whereas GR
decodes over compact SID tokens without item-side signal. We for-
malize this via Bayes’ theorem, ranking by 𝑝(𝑦| f,𝑢) is equivalent
to ranking by 𝑝(f | 𝑦,𝑢), which factorizes autoregressively over
item features, showing that a generative model with full feature
access matches its discriminative counterpart, with any practical
gap stemming solely from incomplete feature coverage.
We propose UniRec with Chain-of-Attribute (CoA) as its core
mechanism. CoA prefixes each SID sequence with structured at-
tribute tokens:category, seller, brand,before decoding the SID, re-
covering the item-side feature crossing that discriminative models
exploit. Since items sharing identical attributes cluster in adjacent
SID regions, attribute conditioning yields a measurable per-step en-
tropy reduction 𝐻(𝑠𝑘| 𝑠<𝑘, a) < 𝐻(𝑠𝑘| 𝑠<𝑘), narrowing the search
space and stabilizing beam search. We further address two deploy-
ment challenges: Capacity-constrained SID introduces exposure-
weighted capacity penalties into residual quantization to suppress
token collapse and the Matthew effect; Conditional Decoding Context
(CDC) combines Task-Conditioned BOS with hash-based Content
Summaries to inject scenario signals at each decoding step. A joint
RFT and DPO framework aligns the model with business objectives
beyond distribution matching.
Experiments show UniRec outperforms the strongest baseline
by +22.6% HR@50 overall and +15.5% on high-value orders. De-
ployed on Shopee’s e-commerce platform, online A/B tests confirm
significant gains in PVCTR (+5.37%), orders (+4.76%), and GMV
(+5.60%).
CCS Concepts
• Information systems →Recommender systems.
†Equal contribution. ∗Corresponding author.
Permission to make digital or hard copies of all or part of this work for personal or
classroom use is granted without fee provided that copies are not made or distributed
for profit or commercial advantage and that copies bear this notice and the full citation
on the first page. Copyrights for components of this work owned by others than ACM
must be honored. Abstracting with credit is permitted. To copy otherwise, or republish,
to post on servers or to redistribute to lists, requires prior specific permission and/or a
fee. Request permissions from permissions@acm.org.
Conference ’26, Location
© 2026 ACM.
ACM ISBN 978-1-4503-XXXX-X/26/06
https://doi.org/10.1145/XXXXXX.XXXXXX
Keywords
Generative Recommendation, Semantic ID, E-commerce Recom-
mendation
ACM Reference Format:
Ziliang Wang†, Gaoyun Lin†, Xuesi Wang, Shaoqiang Liang, Yili Huang,
Weijie Bian∗, Li Zhang, Mingchen Cai, Jian Dong, Guanxing Zhang . 2026.
UniRec: Bridging the Expressive Gap between Generative and Discrimina-
tive Recommendation via Chain-of-Attribute. In Proceedings of Conference
’26. ACM, New York, NY, USA, 10 pages. https://doi.org/10.1145/XXXXXX
.XXXXXX
1
Introduction
Current recommendation systems employ a multi-stage discrimina-
tive pipeline—Retrieval →Pre-ranking →Ranking →Reranking—
that suffers from three well-known limitations: inconsistent objec-
tives across stages, sample selection bias where ranking models
trained on the exposed space fail to generalize to the full candidate
set, and compounding error propagation through the funnel with-
out possibility of downstream correction. Inspired by the success of
large language models [1, 9, 15], Generative Recommendation (GR)
reframes this as autoregressive decoding over Semantic IDs (SIDs),
unifying retrieval and ranking into a single model and eliminating
inter-stage misalignment [4, 13].
Despite this architectural advantage, a fundamental expres-
sive gap separates the two paradigms. Discriminative models esti-
mate 𝑝(𝑦| f,𝑢) with direct access to item feature vectors f, enabling
explicit user–item feature crossing. Generative models, by contrast,
decode over compact SID tokens without conditioning on any item-
side signal—the model must commit to a generation path before
it has seen any item feature. This is not merely an engineering
limitation; it reflects a structural asymmetry in the information
available at decoding time. Furthermore, recommendation inher-
ently involves one-to-many mappings: unlike language modeling
where a given context largely determines the next token, a single
user behavior sequence may correspond to multiple valid target
items, amplifying generation uncertainty and training conflicts that
discriminative models resolve through explicit feature interaction.
This raises a fundamental question: can generative recommendation
match the expressive power of its discriminative counterpart, and if
so, under what conditions?
We answer this question affirmatively through a Bayesian anal-
ysis. By Bayes’ theorem, ranking items by the discriminative score
𝑝(𝑦| f,𝑢) is equivalent to ranking by the generative posterior
𝑝(f | 𝑦,𝑢), which factorizes autoregressively over item features.
This equivalence establishes a theoretical upper bound: a generative
model with full feature access is as expressive as its discriminative
arXiv:2604.12234v3  [cs.IR]  22 Apr 2026

Conference ’26, Month 2026, Location
Ziliang Wang, Gaoyun Lin, Xuesi Wang, Shaoqiang Liang, Yili Huang, Weijie Bian et al.
counterpart; any practical gap arises from feature coverage rather
than a fundamental modeling asymmetry. The key insight is that
SID codes, by compressing rich item semantics into compact dis-
crete tokens, inevitably discard structured item properties—such as
taxonomy, seller, and brand identifiers—that discriminative models
exploit through explicit feature crossing. Recovering these lost sig-
nals within the generative trajectory is both necessary and sufficient
to close the expressive gap.
This insight motivates Chain-of-Attribute (CoA), the core
mechanism of our proposed framework UniRec. CoA prefixes
each SID sequence with coarse-grained attribute tokens, yielding a
speculate-then-refine generation paradigm: the model first predicts
structured item attributes (category, seller, brand), then condition-
ally generates the SID given these attributes. Since items sharing
identical attributes occupy adjacent regions in the SID semantic
space, attribute conditioning yields a measurable per-step condi-
tional entropy reduction—formally, 𝐻(𝑠𝑘| 𝑠<𝑘, a) < 𝐻(𝑠𝑘| 𝑠<𝑘)—
whose cumulative effect narrows the effective search space, stabi-
lizes beam search trajectories, and attenuates end-to-end decoding
errors. This mechanism bridges the expressive gap by recovering,
within the generative decoding trajectory, the item-side feature
crossing that was previously exclusive to discriminative models.
Beyond CoA, deployment at scale introduces two further chal-
lenges. First, item popularity follows a long-tail distribution: even
with equal item counts per cluster, a small fraction of high-traffic
items dominates the exposure load of their assigned codebook
entries. In our production data, the top 10% of (𝑠0,𝑠1) combina-
tions capture 87.9% of total exposure—a 2.6× amplification of mild
item-count imbalance into extreme traffic concentration. Capacity-
constrained SID addresses this by introducing exposure-weighted
capacity penalties into residual quantization, directly controlling
traffic load per codebook entry and suppressing the hereditary
Matthew effect across SID layers. Second, a unified model serving
multiple recommendation scenarios without explicit task condition-
ing suffers from conflicting behavioral distributions that destabilize
generation and cause errors to compound across the autoregres-
sive chain. Conditional Decoding Context (CDC) addresses this
by combining a scenario-conditioned Task-Conditioned BOS with
hash-based Content Summaries, injecting task-specific and combi-
natorial signals at each decoding step. To further align UniRec with
business objectives beyond distribution matching, we adopt Direct
Preference Optimization (DPO) [12] combined with Reward-Driven
Fine-tuning (RFT) that reweights training samples by continuous
business value estimates.
Our main contributions are as follows:
• Theoretical Characterization of the Expressive Gap: We
provide the first information-theoretic analysis showing that
the expressive gap between generative and discriminative
recommendation arises from feature coverage, not modeling
asymmetry. Via Bayes’ theorem, we establish a theoretical
upper bound and prove that a generative model with full
feature access matches the discriminative ranking.
• Chain-of-Attribute (CoA): Motivated by the theoretical
analysis, we propose CoA as a principled mechanism to
bridge the expressive gap. By pre-generating structured item
attributes before SID decoding, CoA recovers item-side fea-
ture crossing within the generative trajectory, yielding mea-
surable per-step entropy reduction 𝐻(𝑠𝑘| 𝑠<𝑘, a) < 𝐻(𝑠𝑘|
𝑠<𝑘) and end-to-end error attenuation.
• Capacity-constrained SID and CDC: We address SID
distribution collapse through exposure-weighted residual
quantization, and multi-scenario error accumulation through
Task-Conditioned BOS and combinatorial Content Summaries—
two system-level contributions essential for large-scale de-
ployment.
• Comprehensive Empirical Validation: Extensive offline
experiments show that UniRec outperforms the strongest
baseline by +22.6% relative HR@50 on all samples and +15.5%
on high-value order samples. Deployed on Shopee’s e-commerce
platform, online A/B tests confirm significant gains in PVCTR
(+5.37%), orders (+4.76%), and GMV (+5.60%).
2
Related Work
Industrial-Scale Discriminative Recommendation. Traditional rec-
ommendation systems adopt a multi-stage discriminative pipeline—
retrieval, pre-ranking, ranking, and reranking—where each stage
optimizes a local objective. While effective at scale, this architecture
suffers from objective misalignment across stages, sample selection
bias, and error propagation through the funnel. To raise the perfor-
mance ceiling within this paradigm, HSTU [17] proposes sparse se-
quence transduction for high-throughput sequential modeling, and
RankMixer [21] improves model flops utilization through architec-
tural redesign. MTGR [6] combines generative sequence modeling
with traditional feature-interaction modules for industrial-grade op-
timization. However, because the underlying multi-stage structure
is preserved, issues of misalignment and bias remain fundamentally
unresolved.
Generative Recommendation and Semantic IDs. GR reframes can-
didate generation as autoregressive decoding over discrete item
representations, unifying retrieval and ranking into a single model.
TIGER [13] pioneered this direction by mapping items to hierarchi-
cal semantic tokens via RQ-VAE and predicting token sequences
autoregressively. Subsequent work has extended this foundation
in multiple directions: OneRec [4] unifies the multi-stage pipeline
into an end-to-end generative framework with iterative preference
alignment; OneMall [18] applies a similar paradigm to e-commerce;
OneSearch [2] and OneSearch-V2 [3] extend generative retrieval
to e-commerce search with latent reasoning and DPO-based align-
ment. On the tokenization side, COINS [19] and FORGE [5] study
the quality and collision properties of semantic ID construction,
establishing that token usage collapse and invalid combinations
directly affect decoding availability.
GRACE [10] introduces Chain-of-Thought tokenization that
prepends explicit product knowledge graph attributes before se-
mantic tokens during decoding, empirically demonstrating that
attribute conditioning improves generation quality. While GRACE
and our CoA share the high-level intuition of prefixing attributes
before SID tokens, they differ in both motivation and scope. GRACE
treats attribute prepending as an empirical design choice for enrich-
ing token-level reasoning without theoretical justification. CoA, by
contrast, is grounded in a formal information-theoretic analysis

UniRec: Bridging the Expressive Gap between Generative and Discriminative Recommendation via Chain-of-Attribute
Conference ’26, Month 2026, Location
that establishes a theoretical upper bound between generative and
discriminative recommendation via Bayes’ theorem, and proves
that attribute conditioning yields a measurable per-step entropy
reduction—providing the first theoretical characterization of why
attribute prefixing narrows the expressive gap in GR.
Preference Alignment for Recommendation. Aligning GR models
with business objectives beyond NTP has emerged as a critical
challenge for deployment at scale. DPO [12] simplifies preference
alignment by directly optimizing a contrastive objective without a
separate reward model, and has been applied to recommendation to
bridge the gap between generative training and user preference sig-
nals [2, 4]. OneSearch-V2 [3] further demonstrates that DPO-based
alignment outperforms reward model-based approaches in both
flexibility and alignment quality for generative retrieval, providing
empirical evidence that direct preference optimization is more effec-
tive than two-stage reward-then-policy pipelines. Reward-weighted
regression approaches [11] reweight training samples by estimated
business value, providing a lightweight alternative to full reinforce-
ment learning. UniRec combines both paradigms in a unified frame-
work: following the DPO-first principle validated by OneSearch-V2,
we adopt DPO to inject discrete behavioral preference signals con-
structed directly from online traffic without human annotation,
while RFT reformulates the NTP objective with continuous busi-
ness value reweighting to capture complementary reward signals.
3
Method
3.1
Overview
UniRec integrates candidate generation and ranking into a uni-
fied autoregressive decoding framework over hierarchical token
sequences, where each item is represented by multi-layer semantic
tokens. To mitigate the hereditary Matthew effect in hierarchical
representations, we propose Capacity-constrained SID (section 3.2)
that enforces balanced token distribution across layers. To enhance
generation quality, we introduce CoA (section 3.3) that speculatively
generates item attributes before SID tokens, and CDC (section 3.4)
that injects task conditioning and combinatorial feature interactions
into the decoding process. Our model adopts a Decoder-Only ar-
chitecture with Cross-Attention to user behavior sequences, where
per-step Rank Heads generate token distributions (section 3.5), fol-
lowed by RFT and DPO (section 3.6) that align the model with
business objectives through value-based sample reweighting. The
overall pipeline is illustrated in Figure 1.
3.2
Capacity-constrained Semantic ID
Based on the hierarchical SID framework, we map items to dis-
crete token sequences via residual quantization [13]. Prior work on
balanced quantization [4] enforces uniform item-count constraints
during clustering. However, item popularity in recommendation
follows a long-tail distribution: even with equal item counts per
cluster, a small fraction of high-traffic items can dominate the expo-
sure load of their assigned codebook entries, leaving most tokens
severely underutilized in practice. This exposure imbalance gives
rise to a hereditary Matthew effect: high-traffic token combinations
accumulate disproportionate exposure in training data, causing the
model to repeatedly generate the same narrow set of token paths
during beam search while the vast majority of codebook entries
remain marginalized.
To quantify this phenomenon, we analyze the exposure distribu-
tion using production traffic data. For the first layer 𝑠0, we count
how many times each token appears in user impressions, rank
tokens by exposure volume, and compute the fraction of total im-
pressions captured by the top-𝑘% tokens. For deeper layers, we
measure exposure at the joint-combination level: for 𝑠1, we treat
each (𝑠0,𝑠1) pair as a unique combination and compute the cumula-
tive exposure share of the top-𝑘% combinations globally; similarly
for 𝑠2, using (𝑠0,𝑠1,𝑠2) triplets. As shown in Figure 2, the top 10% of
𝑠0 tokens account for 33.24% of total exposure—a moderate skew. In
stark contrast, the top 10% of (𝑠0,𝑠1) combinations capture 87.90%
of exposure, and the top 10% of (𝑠0,𝑠1,𝑠2) combinations capture
89.62%. This 2.6× amplification from 𝑠0 to 𝑠1 confirms that mild
item-count imbalance is transformed into extreme exposure con-
centration at the combination level, where only a narrow set of
high-frequency token paths dominates nearly all traffic.
Capacity-constrained SID addresses hereditary concentration
by enforcing balanced load distribution in residual quantization
clustering. Let the clustering samples at layer 𝑙be {𝑥𝑖}𝑁
𝑖=1, where
𝑁is the number of items, each with exposure weight 𝑤𝑖> 0 (e.g.,
historical impression count). We denote by 𝑧𝑖∈{1, . . . , 𝐾} the
cluster assignment of sample 𝑖, and by 𝝁𝑘∈R𝑑emb the center of the
𝑘-th cluster. Define the exposure load (volume) of the 𝑘-th cluster
as:
𝑉𝑘=
∑︁
𝑖:𝑧𝑖=𝑘
𝑤𝑖.
(1)
Given capacity cap 𝐶𝑐𝑎𝑝> 0 and tolerance 𝜏≥1, the constrained
clustering problem is:
min
{𝑧𝑖},{𝝁𝑘}
𝑁
∑︁
𝑖=1
∥𝑥𝑖−𝝁𝑧𝑖∥2
2,
s.t.
𝑉𝑘≤𝜏𝐶𝑐𝑎𝑝,
∀𝑘∈{1, . . . , 𝐾},
(2)
where 𝝁𝑧𝑖denotes the center of the cluster to which sample 𝑖is
assigned. The capacity reference is set to 𝐶𝑐𝑎𝑝=
1
𝐾
Í𝑁
𝑖=1 𝑤𝑖, i.e.,
the mean exposure load per cluster. This hard-constrained prob-
lem is NP-hard in general. We adopt a two-phase greedy strategy:
first assign each sample to its nearest cluster center to minimize
reconstruction error, then repair overloaded clusters by reassigning
excess samples to the nearest under-capacity cluster. Algorithm 1
summarizes the full procedure.
3.3
Chain-of-Attribute
From Discriminative to Generative: A Theoretical Upper Bound. A
common concern about GR is that, without direct access to target-
side item features during generation, the model’s expressive ceiling
is fundamentally lower than that of discriminative ranking models,
which score items by 𝑝(𝑦| f,𝑢) with direct access to item features f,
whereas generative models factorize over a compact SID sequence
Î𝐿−1
𝑙=0 𝑝(𝑠𝑙| 𝑠<𝑙,𝑢) without explicit feature conditioning. We argue
this gap is not a fundamental modeling asymmetry, but rather a
consequence of feature coverage. Let f = (𝑓1, . . . , 𝑓𝑛) denote the
feature representation of an item, 𝑢the user context, and 𝑦the

Conference ’26, Month 2026, Location
Ziliang Wang, Gaoyun Lin, Xuesi Wang, Shaoqiang Liang, Yili Huang, Weijie Bian et al.
Multimodal-Embedding
Tokenization: Capacity-constrained Semantic ID
Multimodal
Embedding 1 2
n
3 ...
1 2 3
n
...
1 2 3
n
...
RQ-Kmeans
i4
w1
w2
w3
w4
w5
i1
i2
i3
i5
overload
Repair
i3
i1
i2
w1
w2
w3
UniRec: Architecture
codebook0
codebook1
codebook2
User Sequence
SID Sequence
RMSNorm
Q
K & V
Gated-CrossAttn
RMSNorm
MMoE-FFN
attn output
prefix emb
content 
summary
aggregated
representation
Hierarchical Rank Head
content summary
s0
s1
hash0
hash1
hash2
(s0, s1)
shared table
Multimodal-Embedding
Alignment
NTP Loss
Preference Pair
Reweight
layer-wise Stop 
Gradient
RFT Loss
DPO Loss
w1
i1
i3
i1
i2
w1
w2
w3
...
...
Static Profile 
...
concatenation
...
...
pooling
pooling
Behavior Sequence SID-Level Multimodal 
bos a1
a2 a3
s0 s1
bos
a1
a2
a3
s0
s1
concatenation
concatenation
a1
a2
a3
s0
s1
s2
...
output layer
Figure 1: Overview of UniRec architecture.
0
20
40
60
80
100
0
20
40
60
80
100
Cumulative Exposure (%)
Top 10% sid0
33.2% exposure
Top 10% sid1
87.9% exposure
Top 10% sid2
89.62% exposure
Lorenz Curve - Exposure Concentration
sid0
sid0-1
sid0-1-2
0-1
1-3
3-5
5-10
10-20
20-50
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
Incremental Exposure (%)
6.9
8.1
6.2
12.1
17.1
29.7
49.1
19.9
8.8
10.1
7.0
4.4
57.3
17.3
7.1
7.9
5.5
3.9
Interval Exposure Distribution
sid0
sid0-1
sid0-1-2
Figure 2: Exposure concentration across SID layers under
standard RQ-𝐾Means [4].
engagement label. By Bayes’ theorem,
𝑝(𝑦| f,𝑢) ∝𝑝(f | 𝑦,𝑢) 𝑝(𝑦| 𝑢),
(3)
and since 𝑝(𝑦| 𝑢) is independent of f, ranking by the discriminative
score is equivalent to ranking by the generative posterior 𝑝(f | 𝑦,𝑢).
Expanding via the chain rule,
𝑝(f | 𝑦,𝑢) =
𝑛
Ö
𝑘=1
𝑝(𝑓𝑘| 𝑓<𝑘,𝑦,𝑢),
(4)
which corresponds precisely to autoregressive decoding over item
features. This establishes a theoretical upper bound: a generative
model with full access to item features f is expressively equiva-
lent to its discriminative counterpart. Any practical gap therefore
Algorithm 1 Capacity-Constrained Residual Quantization
Require: Item embeddings {e(𝑥𝑖)}𝑁
𝑖=1, exposure weights {𝑤𝑖}, lay-
ers 𝐿, clusters 𝐾, tolerance 𝜏
Ensure: Semantic IDs {𝑠0(𝑥𝑖), . . . ,𝑠𝐿−1(𝑥𝑖)}𝑁
𝑖=1
1: for 𝑙= 0 to 𝐿−1 do
2:
r𝑖←e(𝑥𝑖) −Í
𝑗<𝑙𝝁𝑗,𝑠𝑗(𝑥𝑖) ⊲Compute residual; r𝑖= e(𝑥𝑖)
if 𝑙= 0
3:
Initialize {𝝁𝑘}𝐾
𝑘=1 via 𝐾-Means++; set 𝐶𝑐𝑎𝑝←1
𝐾
Í𝑁
𝑖=1 𝑤𝑖
4:
repeat
5:
𝑧𝑖←arg min𝑘∥r𝑖−𝝁𝑘∥2 for all 𝑖; compute 𝑉𝑘←
Í
𝑖:𝑧𝑖=𝑘𝑤𝑖
6:
for 𝑘with 𝑉𝑘> 𝜏𝐶𝑐𝑎𝑝do ⊲Repair overloaded clusters
7:
for 𝑖with 𝑧𝑖= 𝑘do
8:
𝑧𝑖←arg min𝑘′:𝑉𝑘′ +𝑤𝑖≤𝜏𝐶𝑐𝑎𝑝∥r𝑖−𝝁𝑘′ ∥2
9:
Update 𝑉𝑘←𝑉𝑘−𝑤𝑖; 𝑉𝑘′ ←𝑉𝑘′ + 𝑤𝑖
10:
end for
11:
end for
12:
𝝁𝑘←mean{r𝑖: 𝑧𝑖= 𝑘}; J ←1
𝑁
Í
𝑖∥r𝑖−𝝁𝑧𝑖∥2
13:
until |ΔJ | < 𝜖
14:
𝑠𝑙(𝑥𝑖) ←𝑧𝑖, 𝝁𝑙,𝑘←𝝁𝑘
15: end for
arises from approximation capacity or feature coverage, not from a
fundamental modeling asymmetry.
Chain-of-Attribute as Explicit Feature Compensation. Fully se-
quential decoding over all item features is latency-prohibitive at

UniRec: Bridging the Expressive Gap between Generative and Discriminative Recommendation via Chain-of-Attribute
Conference ’26, Month 2026, Location
recommendation scale. GR systems therefore employ hierarchical
SID tokens to compress rich item semantics into a compact code, re-
placing the full factorization of eq. (4) with Î𝐿−1
𝑙=0 𝑝(𝑠𝑙| 𝑠<𝑙,𝑢). This
compression is inherently lossy: structured item properties that dis-
criminative models exploit through explicit feature crossing—e.g.,
taxonomy, seller, and brand identifiers—are folded into the SID code
and become latent during decoding, causing the generative model
to fall short of the discriminative feature coverage upper bound
established above.
UniRec addresses this through the CoA mechanism, which pre-
fixes the SID sequence with 𝑚coarse-grained attribute tokens
a = [attr1, . . . , attr𝑚], yielding the factorization:
𝑝(s | 𝑢) = 𝑝(a | 𝑢) ·
𝐿−1
Ö
𝑙=0
𝑝(𝑠𝑙| a,𝑠<𝑙,𝑢).
(5)
We emphasize that CoA is a practical approximation to the theoreti-
cal upper bound of eq. (4): rather than decoding over the full item
feature vector, it selectively recovers the coarse-grained attributes
most discarded by SID compression, subject to a fixed latency over-
head of 𝑚additional autoregressive steps. The degree to which
this approximation narrows the feature coverage gap is quantified
by the mutual information 𝐼(a; 𝑠𝑙| 𝑠<𝑙,𝑢) between the generated
attributes and SID tokens—a larger mutual information implies a
greater reduction in decoding uncertainty.
This design yields two complementary benefits. First, CoA pro-
vides a measurable reduction in generation uncertainty: the entropy
difference at layer 𝑙,
Δ𝐻𝑙= 𝐻(𝑠𝑙| 𝑠<𝑙,𝑢) −𝐻(𝑠𝑙| a,𝑠<𝑙,𝑢) = 𝐼(a; 𝑠𝑙| 𝑠<𝑙,𝑢) ≥0,
(6)
is strictly positive whenever a and𝑠𝑙are not conditionally independent—
a condition that holds in practice because items sharing the same
category occupy adjacent regions in the SID semantic space, so their
token sequences are structurally correlated with coarse-grained
attributes by construction. The cumulative reduction Í
𝑙Δ𝐻𝑙stabi-
lizes the beam search trajectory; furthermore, since conditioning
on a reduces each layer’s token error rate from 𝜖𝑙to 𝜖′
𝑙< 𝜖𝑙, the
cascading failure probability satisfies 𝑃′(error) = 1 −Î
𝑙(1 −𝜖′
𝑙) <
1 −Î
𝑙(1 −𝜖𝑙) = 𝑃(error), yielding end-to-end error attenuation
whenever attributes are strongly correlated with items. Second,
CoA is complementary to the cross-attention module (section 3.5.2):
whereas cross-attention captures user–item interactions at the rep-
resentation level by encoding user preference context into the de-
coder’s hidden states, CoA operates at the decoding level by pro-
viding explicit item-side semantic context at each generation step.
Together, they inject who the user is and what kind of item is being
generated into the same generative trajectory, enabling UniRec
to jointly leverage user preference structure and item attribute
structure within a single framework.
In summary, CoA provides the first information-theoretic char-
acterization of decoding uncertainty in GR. Grounded in the the-
oretical upper bound relating discriminative and generative rec-
ommendation, it operationalizes a principled and latency-aware
approximation: selectively recovering the item-side feature sig-
nals most discarded by SID compression, with the degree of gap
reduction governed by 𝐼(a;𝑠𝑙| 𝑠<𝑙,𝑢) and validated empirically
through measurable per-step entropy reduction and end-to-end
error attenuation.
3.4
Conditional Decoding Context
CDC augments the decoding process with two complementary
mechanisms: Task-Conditioned BOS tells the model what task it is
solving, while Content Summary provides compact combinatorial
interaction features of previously decoded tokens.
Task-Conditioned BOS. A unified GR model typically needs to
handle multiple objectives simultaneously—different recommenda-
tion scenarios may require optimizing for distinct user behaviors
or business goals. For instance, click prediction prioritizes immedi-
ate engagement while purchase prediction focuses on conversion
intent; a main feed scenario emphasizes broad interest exploration
while a search scenario requires query-conditioned relevance; simi-
larly, domestic markets may emphasize local brands whereas inter-
national markets require cross-border product discovery. Training
separate models for each scenario is prohibitively expensive, while
naively sharing parameters without explicit conditioning leads
to objective interference, manifesting as unstable predictions and
degraded performance. Task-Conditioned BOS addresses this by
replacing the fixed BOS token with a learnable embedding condi-
tioned on task context 𝑐task, which jointly encodes the behavioral
objective and recommendation scene:
𝑐task ∈{click, purchase, cart, cross-border, . . .}
|                                                {z                                                }
behavioral objective
× {main feed, search, similar items, flash sale, . . .}
|                                                            {z                                                            }
recommendation scene
This allows the model to learn distinct generation distributions for
different conditions without altering the decoding architecture. By
injecting task-specific signals at the initial state, Task-Conditioned
BOS steers the entire generation trajectory: it biases token distri-
butions toward contextually relevant semantic regions, maintains
consistent intent throughout the decoding chain, and enables the
model to dynamically adapt its generation strategy based on the
recommendation scenario.
Content Summary. In hierarchical decoding, the model has ac-
cess to the autoregressive prefix, but individual token embeddings
fail to capture their joint combinatorial semantics. The relationship
between tokens in the decoding path is not one-to-one: the same
SID token may carry different semantic meanings when paired
with different attributes or parent tokens, and meaningful item
patterns often emerge from specific combinations rather than in-
dividual tokens. Recent work on SIDs [14] has demonstrated that
subword-based decomposition of token sequences—grouping codes
into n-grams or learnable subpieces—significantly improves rank-
ing model generalization. Meanwhile, existing GR methods rely on
self-attention mechanisms to implicitly learn token interactions
during training, which suffers from limited expressiveness for cap-
turing explicit combinatorial patterns.
To address this, we explicitly model Cartesian product interac-
tions along the decoding path. However, explicitly storing all token
pair combinations leads to parameter explosion (e.g., 40002 ≈16M
entries for two 4000-vocabulary layers). We instead employ a Bloom
filter-inspired hash projection with multiple hash functions sharing
a single embedding table. For the 𝑡-th decoding step, we compute

Conference ’26, Month 2026, Location
Ziliang Wang, Gaoyun Lin, Xuesi Wang, Shaoqiang Liang, Yili Huang, Weijie Bian et al.
the content summary c𝑡as:
c𝑡=
𝑀
Ê
𝑖=1
Ehash

𝐻𝑖(path<𝑡) mod 𝑆

,
(7)
where É denotes concatenation, path<𝑡denotes all tokens decoded
before step 𝑡, {𝐻𝑖}𝑀
𝑖=1 are 𝑀hash functions with different combi-
nation strategies, Ehash ∈R𝑆×𝑑hash is a shared embedding table,
and 𝑆is the hash table size determined by 𝑆= ⌊(Î𝑛
𝑖=1 𝑉𝑖)2/(𝑛+1)⌋
for an 𝑛-way Cartesian product with vocabularies {𝑉𝑖}. By using
multiple hash functions with different combination strategies on a
shared embedding table, items with similar attribute-SID patterns
naturally produce overlapping hash signatures, enabling the model
to generalize across related item combinations. This formulation
efficiently injects layer-specific combinatorial context with man-
ageable parameters (𝑀× 𝑆× 𝑑hash) while preserving the semantic
structure essential for generalization.
3.5
Generation Model and Training
UniRec uses a Decoder-Only backbone with Cross-Attention to
the user behavior sequence and per-step Rank Heads, as illustrated
in Figure 1.
3.5.1
Input Feature Modeling. The model input comprises three
parts: user static profile, behavior sequence, and SID-level multi-
modal features.
Static Profile Features. Sparse fields (user ID, demographics, con-
text features) are embedded and processed:
hstatic = RMSNorm([euid ⊕ectx ⊕· · · ]) ∈R𝑑static.
(8)
Behavior Sequence Features. User click behaviors are organized
chronologically. Each behavior’s item-side attributes (item, shop,
category, etc.) are processed as:
h𝑖= Linear(RMSNorm([eitem𝑖⊕eshop𝑖⊕ecate𝑖⊕· · · ])) ∈R𝑑model,
(9)
forming the behavior sequence Hseq = {h1, . . . , h𝑇} ∈R𝑇×𝑑model.
SID-Level Multimodal Features. Multi-layer SIDs {𝑠0,𝑠1,𝑠2} de-
rived from multimodal content alignment are embedded and fused
with their corresponding item embeddings before projection to
ensure temporal alignment with the behavior sequence:
Hmm = {hmm
1
, . . . , hmm
𝐿mm} ∈R𝐿mm×𝑑model,
(10)
where each hmm
𝑗
= RMSNorm(Linear([e(0)
𝑗
⊕e(1)
𝑗
⊕e(2)
𝑗
])). These
are appended to the sequence: Hseq ←[Hseq; Hmm] ∈R(𝑇+𝐿mm)×𝑑model.
Aggregated Representation. The static profile and pooled behav-
ior features are combined:
hagg = RMSNorm([hstatic ⊕Pool(Hseq)]) ∈R𝑑agg.
(11)
3.5.2
Cross-Attention Conditioning. Cross-Attention decouples the
user behavior context from the token decoding process. In this mod-
ule, the behavior sequence Hseq serves as the static Key-Value pairs,
while the decoding-side sequence—comprising the task prompt,
attributes, and SID tokens—acts as the Query.
Specifically, let eBOS be the Task-Conditioned BOS embedding
(dependent on𝑐task), eattr the embeddings of the CoA tokens [𝑎1, . . . ,𝑎𝑚],
and {e0, e1, e2} the embeddings of the hierarchical SID tokens. The
query sequence Q is constructed by concatenating these embed-
dings with positional encodings:
Q(0) = PosEncoding([eBOS ⊕eattr ⊕e0 ⊕e1 ⊕e2]) ∈R(1+𝑚+𝐿)×𝑑model,
(12)
where the total query length 1 + 𝑚+ 𝐿corresponds to the full
decoding path. The Key and Value matrices are derived from the
unified behavior sequence Hseq, also augmented with positional
information:
K = V = PosEncoding(Hseq) ∈R(𝑇+𝐿mm)×𝑑model.
(13)
The query sequence is processed through 𝐷successive cross-
attention layers. To maintain stable gradients and effective informa-
tion flow, each layer 𝑑employs Pre-Norm and residual connections.
The operations for layer 𝑑are formulated as:
Q(𝑑)
mid = Q(𝑑−1) + GatedCrossAttn(RMSNorm(Q(𝑑−1)), K, V), (14)
Q(𝑑) = Q(𝑑)
mid + MMoE-FFN(RMSNorm(Q(𝑑)
mid)),
(15)
where GatedCrossAttn utilizes a learnable gating parameter 𝛾to
modulate the contribution of the behavior context:
GatedCrossAttn(Q, K, V) = 𝛾· Softmax
 QK⊤
√𝑑model

V.
(16)
Each expert within the MMoE-FFN utilizes SwiGLU activations to
capture complex task-specific patterns. After 𝐷layers of refinement,
the final output sequence is normalized:
Qout = RMSNorm(Q(𝐷)) ∈R(1+𝑚+𝐿)×𝑑model.
(17)
3.5.3
Hierarchical Rank Head. UniRec employs a dedicated Rank
Head for each decoding step 𝑡∈{1, . . . ,𝑚+ 𝐿}. The input x𝑡com-
bines: (1) cross-attention output q𝑡= Qout[𝑡, :], (2) prefix embed-
dings eprefix of tokens decoded before step 𝑡, (3) Content Summary
c𝑡from eq. (7), and (4) aggregated representation hagg.
The Rank Head processes x𝑡= [q𝑡⊕eprefix ⊕c𝑡⊕hagg] through
SENet [7] and MaskNet [16] to produce:
𝑝(𝑠𝑡| 𝑠<𝑡,𝑢,𝑐task) = Softmax(𝑔(𝑡) (x𝑡)),
(18)
where 𝑔(𝑡) (·) denotes the Rank Head at step 𝑡. The output vocab-
ulary is task-specific: attribute domains for 𝑡≤𝑚, and SID layer
V𝑡−𝑚−1 for 𝑡> 𝑚.
3.5.4
Training Objectives. The generation module is trained via
NTP with teacher forcing. The target item is represented as s★=
(𝑎★
1 , . . . ,𝑎★
𝑚,𝑠★
0 , . . . ,𝑠★
𝐿−1) comprising 𝑚attribute tokens and 𝐿SID
tokens. The training loss is:
LNTP = −
𝑚+𝐿
∑︁
𝑡=1
𝛼𝑖· log𝑝𝜃(𝑠★
𝑡| s★
<𝑡,𝑢,𝑐task),
(19)
where 𝛼𝑖weights samples by engagement (e.g., click, conversion),
and 𝑝𝜃is produced by Rank Head 𝑔(𝑡) from eq. (18). AdamW is
employed as the optimizer to minimize the objective function.
3.6
Business Objective and User Preference
Alignment
NTP trains UniRec to model the exposure distribution, but opti-
mizes for distribution matching rather than business objectives. To
bridge this gap, we introduce a unified alignment framework: RFT
reformulates the NTP objective by reweighting training samples

UniRec: Bridging the Expressive Gap between Generative and Discriminative Recommendation via Chain-of-Attribute
Conference ’26, Month 2026, Location
according to continuous business value estimates (e.g., GMV, watch
time); DPO further injects discrete behavioral preference signals
(purchase, click, exposure) via contrastive pair optimization. The
two are jointly optimized in a single training step:
L = LRFT + 𝜆DPO LDPO,
(20)
where LRFT is the business-value-reweighted NTP objective (eq. (24))
and 𝜆DPO controls the relative contribution of the preference signal.
3.6.1
Reward-Driven Fine-tuning. RFT reformulates NTP by up-
weighting samples whose interacted items carry higher estimated
business value. For each training sample (𝑢𝑖,𝑥𝑖), we define a com-
posite reward:
𝑅(𝑢𝑖,𝑥𝑖) = F ({ ˆ𝑦𝑘(𝑢𝑖,𝑥𝑖)}
𝑁obj
𝑘=1 ),
(21)
where { ˆ𝑦𝑘} denote predicted engagement metrics (e.g., watch time,
conversion probability) and F aggregates them according to busi-
ness priorities. We normalize sample advantages within each batch
B to stabilize gradients across varying reward scales:
𝐴𝑖= 𝑅(𝑢𝑖,𝑥𝑖) −1
|B|
∑︁
𝑗∈B
𝑅(𝑢𝑗,𝑥𝑗),
(22)
ˆ𝐴𝑖=
𝐴𝑖
𝜎𝐴+ 𝜖,
˜𝐴𝑖= clip( ˆ𝐴𝑖, −𝑐clip,𝑐clip),
(23)
where 𝜎𝐴=
√︃
1
|B|
Í
𝑗∈B 𝐴2
𝑗is the batch root mean square, 𝜖pre-
vents division by zero, and 𝑐clip suppresses outliers. The reweighted
training objective is:
LRFT = −
∑︁
𝑖∈B
𝑚+𝐿
∑︁
𝑡=1
(1 + 𝜆˜𝐴𝑖) · 𝛼𝑖· log𝑝𝜃(𝑠★
𝑖,𝑡| s★
𝑖,<𝑡,𝑢𝑖,𝑐task),
(24)
where 𝜆> 0 controls reweighting strength, and 𝛼𝑖is proportional
to the GMV value of the interacted item, such that high-value
transactions contribute more strongly to the training signal. When
˜𝐴𝑖> 0 the model amplifies learning from high-reward samples;
when ˜𝐴𝑖< 0 it suppresses low-performing patterns.
3.6.2
Preference Alignment via Direct Preference Optimization. DPO
complements RFT by directly contrasting item pairs according to ob-
served behavioral outcomes. For each item 𝑥exposed under request
context 𝑢, we define a behavioral preference level:
R(𝑥) =


2
if 𝑥is purchased
1
if 𝑥is clicked
0
if 𝑥is exposed only
(25)
Items are ordered as 𝑥𝑖≻𝑥𝑗if R(𝑥𝑖) > R(𝑥𝑗), or by exposure
rank when behaviors are equal. Preference pairs are organized
by request: within each batch, all items exposed under the same
request context 𝑢are grouped, and pairs (𝑥𝑖,𝑥𝑗) satisfying 𝑥𝑖≻𝑥𝑗
are sampled from each group to construct:
D = {(𝑢,𝑥𝑖,𝑥𝑗) | 𝑥𝑖≻𝑥𝑗, 𝑥𝑖,𝑥𝑗∈E𝑢},
(26)
where E𝑢denotes the set of items exposed under request 𝑢. The
DPO objective is:
LDPO = −E(𝑢, 𝑦𝑤, 𝑦𝑙)∼D

log𝜎

𝛽

log 𝜋𝜃(𝑦𝑤| 𝑢)
𝜋ref(𝑦𝑤| 𝑢) −log 𝜋𝜃(𝑦𝑙| 𝑢)
𝜋ref(𝑦𝑙| 𝑢)

,
(27)
where 𝜋ref is the reference model and 𝛽= 0.1 controls preference
margin sharpness.
Layer-wise Stop Gradient. To preserve the stability of prefix pre-
dictions that serve as conditioning context for subsequent genera-
tion, we apply stop-gradient to all decoding steps except the final
SID layer, whose gradients are allowed to flow. Formally:
log 𝜋𝜃(𝑦| 𝑢) =
𝐿−1
∑︁
𝑡=1
sg

log𝑝𝜃
 𝑠★
𝑡| 𝑠★
<𝑡,𝑢
|                           {z                           }
frozen prefix
+ log𝑝𝜃
 𝑠★
𝐿| 𝑠★
<𝐿,𝑢
|                 {z                 }
DPO target layer
,
(28)
where sg[·] denotes the stop-gradient operator. This ensures DPO
exclusively updates the final-layer Rank Head while leaving all
prefix predictions intact.
4
Experiments
We conduct extensive offline and online experiments to validate
the effectiveness of UniRec. Our offline evaluation demonstrates
improvements in token prediction accuracy and retrieval quality
across multiple metrics, while online A/B testing confirms signifi-
cant gains in business objectives including GMV and user engage-
ment.
4.1
Offline Evaluation
4.1.1
Experimental Setup.
Dataset. We conduct offline experiments on Shopee’s e-commerce
platform. The dataset is constructed from real production logs over
9 consecutive days in the platform’s main feed recommendation sce-
nario, where users browse a continuous vertical scroll of products.
The dataset contains billions of user interaction records, covering
diverse behaviors including impressions, clicks, add-to-cart actions,
and purchase conversions.
Evaluation Metrics. We evaluate model performance using the
following metrics:
• Token Hit Ratio@3: During teacher-forcing training, we mea-
sure the fraction of ground-truth tokens that appear in the model’s
top-3 predictions at each decoding step. This metric reflects how
well the model learns the token distribution.
• BS Hit Ratio@K: At inference time, we perform beam search
and measure whether the target item appears in the top-𝐾gener-
ated candidates. We report Hit Ratio at 𝐾∈{50, 100, 200}. Given
that purchase conversions are the most valuable interactions
for e-commerce, we additionally report BS Hit Ratio@𝐾specifi-
cally on order samples (the subset of samples corresponding to
successful purchases).
Model Configuration. For Capacity-constrained SIDs, we use a 3-
layer hierarchy with codebook size 𝐾= 4000 per layer and tolerance
𝜏= 1.05. For CoA, we decode the item’s category hierarchy (L2
→L3)1 before SID tokens. Content Summary employs hash-based
feature crossing with 𝑀= 3 hash functions over feature index pairs
(𝑥,𝑦): 𝐻1(𝑥,𝑦) = 𝑥+ 𝑦, 𝐻2(𝑥,𝑦) = 𝑥· 𝑦, and 𝐻3(𝑥,𝑦) = 𝑝1𝑥+ 𝑝2𝑦
1Categories are organized hierarchically as L1 (top-level) ⊃L2 (mid-level) ⊃L3 (fine-
grained), where each level provides progressively finer item categorization.

Conference ’26, Month 2026, Location
Ziliang Wang, Gaoyun Lin, Xuesi Wang, Shaoqiang Liang, Yili Huang, Weijie Bian et al.
where 𝑝1, 𝑝2 are prime numbers. The hash embedding dimension
is 𝑑hash = 64, and Cartesian products include: (L2, 𝑠0), (L2, 𝑠1), (L3,
𝑠0), (L3, 𝑠1), and (𝑠0, 𝑠1). The model dimension is 𝑑model = 256, with
behavior sequence length 𝑇= 200 and multimodal SID sequence
length 𝐿mm = 100. The cross-attention module uses 3 layers with 8
attention heads per layer. The MMoE-FFN employs 4 experts with
SwiGLU activation and hidden dimension 4𝑑model. For Business
Objective Alignment, we use GMV as the business reward signal
for RFT, with loss weights 𝜆RFT : 𝜆DPO = 20 : 3; DPO is configured
with 𝛽= 0.1 and preference pairs are constructed by grouping
exposed items per request and sampling within each group. The
model is trained with the AdamW optimizer using a learning rate
of 3 × 10−4.
4.1.2
Baseline Comparison. We compare UniRec against the fol-
lowing methods:
• SASRec [8]: A self-attention based sequential recommendation
model that serves as a strong discriminative retrieval baseline. We
adapt SASRec to our SID-based evaluation by using its learned
representations for nearest-neighbor retrieval over the SID code-
book.
• TIGER [13]: An Encoder-Decoder generative retrieval architec-
ture where the encoder processes user behavior sequences and
the decoder autoregressively generates item identifiers.
• OneRec-V2 [4, 20]: A Decoder-Only generative retrieval archi-
tecture with cross-attention to user behavior sequences for au-
toregressive item generation.
Table 1 presents the performance comparison on all samples.
UniRec achieves substantial improvements across all metrics, out-
performing the strongest generative baseline (OneRec-V2) by +9.9
percentage points at HR@50 (+22.6% relative gain), +9.5 points
at HR@100 (+18.2% relative gain), and +10.1 points at HR@200
(+17.2% relative gain). These gains demonstrate the effectiveness of
our unified framework design.
Performance on Order Samples. Given the critical importance
of purchase conversions in e-commerce, we separately evaluate
Hit Ratio on order samples (Table 1, right half). UniRec demon-
strates even stronger performance on this high-value subset, out-
performing OneRec-V2 by +9.0 points at HR@50, +10.3 points at
HR@100, and +11.5 points at HR@200. This amplified performance
on purchase conversions stems from UniRec’s ability to jointly
model multiple user actions inherent to e-commerce scenarios. Our
Task-Conditioned BOS mechanism enables the model to distinguish
between diverse behavioral objectives—click, add-to-cart, purchase,
and cross-border transactions—while RFT reweights samples based
on actual business value (GMV).
4.1.3
Ablation Studies. We ablate three core components of UniRec:
Capacity-Constrained SID construction, and the two CDC compo-
nents (Task-Conditioned BOS and Content Summary). All variants
are compared against the Full Model reference in Table 3.
Capacity-Constrained SID. Replacing Capacity-Constrained SIDs
with standard RQ-KMeans leads to consistent degradation across
all metrics (Table 3(a)), with HR@50 dropping from 0.537 to 0.481
and HR@100 from 0.618 to 0.558. Beyond retrieval accuracy, we
examine the codebook utilization of the two approaches to under-
stand the underlying cause. Figure 3 plots the fraction of total item
exposures captured by the top-1%, top-5%, and top-10% most-used
tokens at each level of the SID hierarchy (sid0, sid0-1, and sid0-1-
2). The imbalanced distribution in RQ-KMeans forces the decoder
to disproportionately allocate its probability mass to a small set
of over-represented codes, degrading generalization to less com-
mon items. Capacity-Constrained SIDs enforce a near-uniform load
across the codebook through the occupancy tolerance 𝜏, produc-
ing a more faithful discrete representation for the long-tail item
distribution prevalent in e-commerce.
sid0
sid0-1
sid0-1-2
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
Top 1% Exposure (%)
6.89%
49.14%
57.33%
4.81%
24.60%
26.04%
RQ-Kmeans
Capacity-constrained
sid0
sid0-1
sid0-1-2
0
20
40
60
80
Top 5% Exposure (%)
21.16%
77.83%
81.73%
18.25%
62.12%
62.55%
RQ-Kmeans
Capacity-constrained
sid0
sid0-1
sid0-1-2
0
20
40
60
80
100
Top 10% Exposure (%)
33.24%
87.90%
89.62%
30.50%
78.49%
77.77%
RQ-Kmeans
Capacity-constrained
Figure 3: Matthew-effect analysis of SID token exposure con-
centration. Lower values indicate more balanced codebook
utilization. At the full three-level hierarchy (sid0-1-2), the
top-1% tokens under RQ-KMeans capture 57.33% of all ex-
posures, whereas Capacity-Constrained SIDs reduce this to
26.04%.
Task-Conditioned BOS. Removing Task-Conditioned BOS leads
to a relative drop of 7.8% at HR@100 (Table 3(b)), as the model loses
the ability to distinguish between task-specific objectives.
To further validate the benefit of Task-Conditioned BOS in a
multi-scene setting, we train on the joint sample pool of three pro-
duction scenarios and compare three conditions (Table 4):
(1) Single-scene: independent model trained and evaluated per
scene.
(2) Multi-scene: one model trained on all scenes jointly, without
scene-differentiating prompts.
(3) Multi-scene + Task-Cond. BOS: joint training with scene-specific
task-conditioned BOS embeddings.
Joint training with multi-scene data already improves over per-
scene models (+0.9/+1.6/+3.0 points at HR@50/100/200), demon-
strating the benefit of cross-scene knowledge transfer. Introducing
Task-Conditioned BOS provides a further consistent gain at all cut-
offs, confirming that scene-specific conditioning is necessary to
resolve conflicts between heterogeneous behavioral distributions
when training on mixed data.
Content Summary. Removing Content Summary causes a larger
relative degradation of 8.6% at HR@100 (Table 3(b)), indicating that
explicitly modeling Cartesian-product feature interactions along
the decoding path is critical for capturing combinatorial signals that
sequence modeling alone cannot efficiently represent. Each hash
function 𝐻𝑖maps a feature index pair (𝑥,𝑦) to a shared embedding
table, enabling the model to encode cross-feature correlations (e.g.,
category × SID token) as a lightweight inductive bias injected at the

UniRec: Bridging the Expressive Gap between Generative and Discriminative Recommendation via Chain-of-Attribute
Conference ’26, Month 2026, Location
Table 1: Hit Ratio on all samples and order (purchase) samples.
All Samples
Order Samples
Method
HR@50
HR@100
HR@200
HR@50
HR@100
HR@200
SASRec
0.421
0.489
0.556
0.548
0.631
0.709
TIGER (0.05B)
0.437
0.508
0.578
0.567
0.652
0.731
OneRec-V2 (0.05B)
0.438
0.523
0.587
0.582
0.671
0.752
UniRec (0.05B)
0.537
0.618
0.688
0.672
0.774
0.867
Table 2: Ablation of CoA configurations.
Attribute Chain
L1@3
L2@3
L3@3
𝑠0@3
𝑠1@3
𝑠2@3
HR@50
HR@100
HR@200
Direct SID (no attributes)
—
—
—
0.314
0.752
0.952
0.458
0.532
0.595
L1 →SID
0.899
—
—
0.488
0.776
0.961
0.471
0.569
0.622
L2 →SID
—
0.755
—
0.591
0.789
0.963
0.515
0.597
0.664
L3 →SID
—
—
0.694
0.654
0.801
0.967
0.517
0.601
0.670
L2 →L3 →SID
—
0.757
0.962
0.682
0.821
0.971
0.537
0.618
0.688
Table 3: Ablation and scaling results. UniRec (Full Model)
is the shared reference for all sub-tables. (a) SID construc-
tion ablation. (b) CDC component ablation. (c) Model scaling
(𝑑model); †denotes the default setting, identical to Full Model.
Configuration
HR@50
HR@100
HR@200
UniRec (Full Model)
0.537
0.618
0.688
(a) SID Construction
RQ-KMeans
0.481
0.558
0.627
(b) Conditional Decoding Context
w/o Task-Cond. BOS
0.493
0.570
0.638
w/o Content Summary
0.485
0.565
0.637
(c) Model Scaling (𝑑model)
64
0.397
0.459
0.514
128
0.477
0.551
0.615
256†
0.537
0.618
0.688
512
0.557
0.639
0.712
Table 4: Multi-scene effectiveness of Task-Conditioned BOS.
Configuration
HR@50
HR@100
HR@200
Single-scene
0.386
0.470
0.540
Multi-scene
0.395
0.486
0.570
Multi-scene + Task-Cond. BOS
0.400
0.510
0.590
prompt layer. The full model combining both Task-Conditioned BOS
and Content Summary achieves the best performance, confirming
that task conditioning and combinatorial feature crossing address
orthogonal challenges.
4.1.4
Model Scaling Analysis. We investigate how model capacity
affects performance by scaling 𝑑model while fixing all other hyper-
parameters. Table 3(c) shows that HR@50, HR@100, and HR@200
improve consistently as 𝑑model increases from 64 to 512. The scal-
ing trend suggests that UniRec benefits from additional capacity,
leaving room for further improvements with larger architectures.
4.2
Online A/B Testing
We deploy UniRec in production on Shopee’s e-commerce platform,
serving tens of millions of users daily.
Experimental Setup. We conduct A/B experiments covering both
main feed and landing page scenarios. The control groups use the
baseline discriminative multi-stage recommender system, while
treatment groups deploy UniRec. Experiments are conducted with
20% user traffic allocation per bucket to ensure statistical signifi-
cance.
Experiment Results. Table 5 presents the results across both sce-
narios. Overall, UniRec achieves substantial improvements across
all key metrics: +5.37% PVCTR, +4.76% orders, +5.60% GMV. The
main feed segment shows consistent gains with +5.37% PVCTR,
+4.27% orders, and +5.42% GMV. The landing page segment delivers
+5.78% orders and +6.19% GMV.
Table 5: Online A/B test results.
Metric
Overall
Feed
Landing
Total Orders
+4.76%
+4.27%
+5.78%
GMV
+5.60%
+5.42%
+6.19%
Page-view CTR
+5.37%
+5.37%
—
Key Observations. Across all experiments, several consistent pat-
terns emerge: (1) UniRec delivers stronger relative gains in PVCTR

Conference ’26, Month 2026, Location
Ziliang Wang, Gaoyun Lin, Xuesi Wang, Shaoqiang Liang, Yili Huang, Weijie Bian et al.
and engagement metrics compared to conversion metrics, indicat-
ing improved content relevance and user satisfaction. (2) The system
maintains competitive latency (110ms end-to-end) comparable to a
single ranking model, while the traditional pipeline requires 266ms,
demonstrating the efficiency gains from end-to-end optimization.
5
Conclusion
In this paper, we present UniRec, a GR framework that addresses
the fundamental structural gap between generative and discrimina-
tive recommendation. We first establish a theoretical foundation
via Bayes’ theorem, proving that the long-assumed performance
gap between the two paradigms arises from feature coverage rather
than a fundamental modeling asymmetry. This motivates CoA, a
speculate-then-refine paradigm that recovers item-side feature sig-
nals within the generative trajectory and yields provable per-step
entropy reduction and end-to-end error attenuation. Beyond CoA,
Capacity-constrained SID suppresses the hereditary Matthew ef-
fect in SID token distributions through exposure-weighted residual
quantization, and CDC stabilizes multi-scenario decoding through
Task-Conditioned BOS and combinatorial Content Summaries. A
joint RFT and DPO framework further aligns the model with het-
erogeneous business objectives. Extensive offline experiments show
that UniRec outperforms the strongest baseline by +22.6% relative
HR@50 on all samples and +15.5% on high-value order samples. De-
ployed on Shopee’s e-commerce platform, online A/B tests further
confirm significant gains in PVCTR (+5.37%), orders (+4.76%), and
GMV (+5.60%), validating its effectiveness in complex real-world
settings.
References
[1] Josh Achiam, Steven Adler, Sandhini Agarwal, Lama Ahmad, Ilge Akkaya, Floren-
cia Leoni Aleman, Diogo Almeida, Janko Altenschmidt, Sam Altman, Shyamal
Anadkat, et al. 2023. Gpt-4 technical report. arXiv preprint arXiv:2303.08774
(2023).
[2] Ben Chen, Xian Guo, Siyuan Wang, Zihan Liang, Yue Lv, Yufei Ma, Xinlong Xiao,
Bowen Xue, Xuxin Zhang, Ying Yang, et al. 2025. Onesearch: A preliminary
exploration of the unified end-to-end generative framework for e-commerce
search. arXiv preprint arXiv:2509.03236 (2025).
[3] Ben Chen, Siyuan Wang, Yufei Ma, Zihan Liang, Xuxin Zhang, Yue Lv, Ying
Yang, Huangyu Dai, Lingtao Mao, Tong Zhao, et al. 2026. OneSearch-V2: The
Latent Reasoning Enhanced Self-distillation Generative Search Framework. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2603.24422 (2026).
[4] Jiaxin Deng, Shiyao Wang, Kuo Cai, Lejian Ren, Qigen Hu, Weifeng Ding, Qiang
Luo, and Guorui Zhou. 2025. Onerec: Unifying retrieve and rank with generative
recommender and iterative preference alignment. arXiv preprint arXiv:2502.18965
(2025).
[5] Kairui Fu, Tao Zhang, Shuwen Xiao, Ziyang Wang, Xinming Zhang, Chenchi
Zhang, Yuliang Yan, Junjun Zheng, Yu Li, Zhihong Chen, et al. 2025. Forge:
Forming semantic identifiers for generative retrieval in industrial datasets. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2509.20904 (2025).
[6] Ruidong Han, Bin Yin, Shangyu Chen, He Jiang, Fei Jiang, Xiang Li, Chi Ma,
Mincong Huang, Xiaoguang Li, Chunzhen Jing, et al. 2025. Mtgr: Industrial-
scale generative recommendation framework in meituan. In Proceedings of the
34th ACM International Conference on Information and Knowledge Management.
5731–5738.
[7] Jie Hu, Li Shen, and Gang Sun. 2018. Squeeze-and-excitation networks. In Proceed-
ings of the IEEE conference on computer vision and pattern recognition. 7132–7141.
[8] Wang-Cheng Kang and Julian McAuley. 2018. Self-attentive sequential recom-
mendation. In 2018 IEEE international conference on data mining (ICDM). IEEE,
197–206.
[9] Aixin Liu, Bei Feng, Bing Xue, Bingxuan Wang, Bochao Wu, Chengda Lu, Cheng-
gang Zhao, Chengqi Deng, Chenyu Zhang, Chong Ruan, et al. 2024. Deepseek-v3
technical report. arXiv preprint arXiv:2412.19437 (2024).
[10] Luyi Ma, Wanjia Zhang, Kai Zhao, Abhishek Kulkarni, Lalitesh Morishetti, Anjana
Ganesh, Ashish Ranjan, Aashika Padmanabhan, Jianpeng Xu, Jason HD Cho, et al.
2025. Grace: Generative recommendation via journey-aware sparse attention on
chain-of-thought tokenization. In Proceedings of the Nineteenth ACM Conference
on Recommender Systems. 135–144.
[11] Jan Peters and Stefan Schaal. 2007. Reinforcement learning by reward-weighted
regression for operational space control. In Proceedings of the 24th international
conference on Machine learning. 745–750.
[12] Rafael Rafailov, Archit Sharma, Eric Mitchell, Christopher D Manning, Stefano
Ermon, and Chelsea Finn. 2023. Direct preference optimization: Your language
model is secretly a reward model. Advances in neural information processing
systems 36 (2023), 53728–53741.
[13] Shashank Rajput, Nikhil Mehta, Anima Singh, Raghunandan Hulikal Keshavan,
Trung Vu, Lukasz Heldt, Lichan Hong, Yi Tay, Vinh Tran, Jonah Samost, et al.
2023. Recommender systems with generative retrieval. Advances in Neural
Information Processing Systems 36 (2023), 10299–10315.
[14] Anima Singh, Trung Vu, Nikhil Mehta, Raghunandan Keshavan, Maheswaran
Sathiamoorthy, Yilin Zheng, Lichan Hong, Lukasz Heldt, Li Wei, Devansh Tandon,
et al. 2024. Better generalization with semantic ids: A case study in ranking for
recommendations. In Proceedings of the 18th ACM Conference on Recommender
Systems. 1039–1044.
[15] Hugo Touvron, Thibaut Lavril, Gautier Izacard, Xavier Martinet, Marie-Anne
Lachaux, Timothée Lacroix, Baptiste Rozière, Naman Goyal, Eric Hambro, Faisal
Azhar, et al. 2023. Llama: Open and efficient foundation language models. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2302.13971 (2023).
[16] Zhiqiang Wang, Qingyun She, and Junlin Zhang. 2021. Masknet: Introducing
feature-wise multiplication to CTR ranking models by instance-guided mask.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2102.07619 (2021).
[17] Jiaqi Zhai, Lucy Liao, Xing Liu, Yueming Wang, Rui Li, Xuan Cao, Leon Gao, Zhao-
jie Gong, Fangda Gu, Michael He, et al. 2024. Actions speak louder than words:
Trillion-parameter sequential transducers for generative recommendations. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2402.17152 (2024).
[18] Kun Zhang, Jingming Zhang, Wei Cheng, Yansong Cheng, Jiaqi Zhang, Hao Lu,
Xu Zhang, Haixiang Gan, Jiangxia Cao, Tenglong Wang, et al. 2026. OneMall:
One Model, More Scenarios–End-to-End Generative Recommender Family at
Kuaishou E-Commerce. arXiv preprint arXiv:2601.21770 (2026).
[19] Qihang Zhao, Zhongbo Sun, Xiaoyang Zheng, Xian Guo, Siyuan Wang, Zihan
Liang, Mingcan Peng, Ben Chen, and Chenyi Lei. 2025. COINS: SemantiC Ids
Enhanced COLd Item RepresentatioN for Click-through Rate Prediction in E-
commerce Search. arXiv preprint arXiv:2510.12604 (2025).
[20] Guorui Zhou, Hengrui Hu, Hongtao Cheng, Huanjie Wang, Jiaxin Deng, Jinghao
Zhang, Kuo Cai, Lejian Ren, Lu Ren, Liao Yu, et al. 2025. Onerec-v2 technical
report. arXiv preprint arXiv:2508.20900 (2025).
[21] Jie Zhu, Zhifang Fan, Xiaoxie Zhu, Yuchen Jiang, Hangyu Wang, Xintian Han,
Haoran Ding, Xinmin Wang, Wenlin Zhao, Zhen Gong, et al. 2025. Rankmixer:
Scaling up ranking models in industrial recommenders. In Proceedings of the
34th ACM International Conference on Information and Knowledge Management.
6309–6316.
