MTServe: Efficient Serving for Generative Recommendation
Models with Hierarchical Caches
Xin Wang†
Chi Ma§
Shaobin Chen†
Pu Wang§
Menglei Zhou§
Junyi Qiu¶
Qiaorui Chen¶
Jiayu Sun¶
Shijie Liu¶
Zehuan Wang¶
Lei Yu§
Chuan Liu§
Fei Jiang§
Wei Lin§
Hao Wang†
Jiawei Jiang†
Xiao Yan†
†School of Computer Science, Wuhan University
§Meituan
¶Nvidia
Abstract
Generative recommendation (GR) offers superior modeling capabil-
ities but suffers from prohibitive inference costs due to the repeated
encoding of long user histories. While cross-request Key-Value (KV)
cache reuse presents a significant optimization opportunity, the
massive scale of individual user states creates a storage explosion
that far exceeds physical GPU limits. We propose MTServe, a hier-
archical cache management system that virtualizes GPU memory
by leveraging host RAM as a scalable backup store. To bridge the
I/O gap between tiers, MTServe introduces a suite of system-level
optimizations, including a hybrid storage layout, an asynchronous
data transfer pipeline, and a locality-driven replacement policy. On
both public and production datasets, MTServe delivers up to 3.1×
speedup while maintaining near-perfect hit ratios (> 98.5%).
Keywords
Generative Recommendation; Model Inference; KV Cache
1
Introduction
For years, recommendation systems have been dominated by tra-
ditional deep learning models, such as Wide & Deep [3] and Deep
Interest Networks [38], which primarily focus on discriminative
ranking through point-wise scoring. However, inspired by the trans-
formative success of Large Language Models (LLMs) in capturing
complex patterns, the industry is rapidly pivoting toward the para-
digm of generative recommendation (GR) [2, 6, 10, 11, 30, 34]. By
framing user–item interaction modeling as a sequence transduction
problem, GR models leverage Transformer-based architectures to
unlock high-order dependencies within extensive interaction histo-
ries that were previously under-explored. While major industrial
players are aggressively pursuing this paradigm to achieve unprece-
dented personalization, a rapidly evolving landscape we summarize
in Appendix E, the transition has encountered a formidable ob-
stacle: the prohibitive computational cost of processing long-term
histories at scale. Consequently, satisfying the strict latency require-
ments of online services often demands an unsustainable amount
Permission to make digital or hard copies of all or part of this work for personal or
classroom use is granted without fee provided that copies are not made or distributed
for profit or commercial advantage and that copies bear this notice and the full citation
on the first page. Copyrights for components of this work owned by others than the
author(s) must be honored. Abstracting with credit is permitted. To copy otherwise, or
republish, to post on servers or to redistribute to lists, requires prior specific permission
and/or a fee. Request permissions from permissions@acm.org.
Conference acronym ’XX, Woodstock, NY
© 2018 Copyright held by the owner/author(s). Publication rights licensed to ACM.
ACM ISBN 978-1-4503-XXXX-X/2018/06
https://doi.org/XXXXXXX.XXXXXXX
Figure 1: Comparison of total tokens processed across three
consecutive requests from the same user: Recompute (4,031
tokens) vs. Reuse (529 tokens).
of hardware resources, making serving infrastructure optimization
a critical priority for large-scale deployment.
Cache Reuse and Challenges. The inference workload in GR is
characterized by processing a user’s interaction sequence, which
typically comprises an extensive historical prefix followed by a rela-
tively small segment of new interactions. As illustrated in Figure 1,
the incremental portion appended during each visit is often a tiny
fraction of the total sequence length. However, standard inference
engines often treat each request as an isolated event, leading to
massive and unnecessary computational redundancy. To mitigate
this, user-side Key–Value (KV) caching persists the intermediate
activations—specifically the Key and Value tensors—of a specific
user’s historical prefix across multiple independent visits. By re-
trieving these user-level persistent states, the system can bypass
the expensive re-encoding of the invariant history and focus ex-
clusively on the incremental updates. As shown in Figure 1, for
the three consecutive requests (𝑅1, 𝑅2, 𝑅3) from the same user, the
recompute paradigm (w.o. reuse) is forced to repeatedly encode
the entire cumulative prefix, totaling 4,031 tokens. In contrast, by
leveraging user-side cache reuse, the computational workload is
significantly reduced to merely 529 tokens.
Despite the potential computation reduction of KV cache reuse,
persisting KV caches in GR at an industrial scale faces formidable
challenges that render existing LLM-centric solutions inadequate.
①Individual Persistence and Storage Explosion. The primary
hurdle stems from the sheer scale of the user base coupled with
long interaction histories. Unlike LLM serving where multiple users
often share a common prefix (e.g., system prompts) that can be man-
aged via radix trees [36], GR requires individualized persistence for
each unique user sequence. This leads to a prohibitive storage con-
sumption: for a representative HSTU model [34], serving just 1,000
users with 10,000-token histories would require over 160 GB of KV
cache—already exceeding the total HBM capacity of two NVIDIA
arXiv:2604.22881v1  [cs.LG]  24 Apr 2026


Conference acronym ’XX, June 03–05, 2018, Woodstock, NY
Wang et al.
A100 (80GB) GPUs. With millions of active users, the memory de-
mand far overwhelms any physical device limits.
②Long-term Persistence vs. Session-based Caching. Standard
LLM caching [14] is session-oriented and volatile, where KV states
are discarded once a dialogue concludes. In contrast, GR requires
long-term durability across intermittent visits. Reactive policies (of-
floading only when memory is full) are insufficient here: they risk
data loss if slots are reclaimed before being backed up, or cause se-
vere latency spikes during forced synchronization. This necessitates
a proactive management to asynchronously persist KV states to
host memory before they become candidates for GPU reclamation.
③High I/O-to-Computation Ratio and Frequent State Swap-
ping. The architectural and workload differences create a severe
I/O bottleneck. While LLMs are compute-heavy and benefit from
keeping KV states resident during long decoding sessions, recom-
mendation models are relatively shallow and process independent,
short-lived requests. This leads to frequent cache churn, where al-
most every request triggers a mandatory restoration of a unique
user state from host memory. Consequently, GR exhibits a much
higher I/O-to-computation ratio, where the time to move data across
the PCIe bus can easily exceed the model’s execution time. Without
careful orchestration, this constant state swapping will inevitably
stall the inference pipeline, thereby negating the throughput bene-
fits of caching and significantly increasing online inference latency.
Our Solution MTServe. To address these challenges, we propose
MTServe, a hierarchical KV cache management system designed
for serving generative recommendation in MeiTuan. Developed in
collaboration with NVIDIA to leverage high-performance hardware
primitives, MTServe breaks the GPU memory wall by organizing
the cache into a two-tier hierarchy. Instead of constraining user
states solely to the capacity-limited GPU VRAM, MTServe utilizes
the vast host memory as a scalable backup store while dynamically
retaining frequently accessed states on the GPU. This architecture
effectively virtualizes the device memory, providing the model
with much larger cache capacity while significantly conserving
expensive GPU resources.
To implement this tiered architecture efficiently, MTServe in-
corporates three key designs. First, we introduce a dual-granularity
storage abstraction (Page-Chunk) to reconcile the conflict between
computational flexibility and transmission efficiency. By coupling
fine-grained GPU paging with coarse-grained CPU chunking, MT-
Serve reduces GPU memory fragmentation while successfully
saturating PCIe bandwidth. Second, to mitigate the high I/O-to-
computation ratio, we design a latency-hiding transfer pipeline
that leverages double-buffered Direct Memory Access (DMA) and
custom-optimized scatter/gather kernels. Through fine-grained
layer-wise synchronization, MTServe effectively overlaps the manda-
tory I/O of state restoration with the model’s forward pass, masking
the transfer latency behind the computation. Finally, we employ
a locality-driven management strategy that exploits the temporal
bursts of user requests. By adopting an LRU-based policy and de-
coupling data persistence from physical slot reclamation, MTServe
enables zero-copy metadata eviction, ensuring that the critical in-
ference path remains non-blocking even under heavy cache churn.
Embedding Layer
L × HSTU Layer
Scoring Head
", $, %, &=MLP(+)
-=. /0! 1
2=3456(4⨀8)
+′=:;<(2)
!!
Item Score
#"
##
#$
#%
#&
#'
…
$$
$%
$&
$(
…
Interaction Sequence
Candidates
%):+
%+,):+,-
!.
Figure 2: The architecture of HSTU model for generative
recommendation [34].
We implement MTServe using PyTorch and evaluate it on both
the public KuaiRand-1K dataset and a production MT dataset. Com-
pared to the recompute paradigm, MTServe achieves significant
latency speedups of 3.04× and 3.1× at a batch size of 8, respectively.
These improvements in latency directly translate into enhanced
system throughput and a substantial reduction in computational
resource consumption. Furthermore, our system maintains a near-
perfect total hit ratio (>98%) even when the active working set
significantly exceeds physical GPU memory capacity. These results
validate MTServe’s effectiveness and scalability for industrial-scale
generative recommendation.
In summary, our main contributions are as follows:
• We identify the significant opportunity for user-side KV cache
reuse in generative recommendation and characterize the core
challenges—including individual storage explosion, long-term
durability requirements, and high I/O-to-computation ratios—that
render existing LLM-centric caching solutions inadequate.
• We propose MTServe, a hierarchical serving system that breaks
the GPU memory wall by organizing the cache into a two-tier
(GPU-CPU) hierarchy. This architecture effectively virtualizes
device memory, providing the model with much larger cache
capacity while significantly conserving expensive GPU resources.
• We introduce a suite of cohesive technical designs to ensure
efficient execution, featuring a dual-granularity storage abstrac-
tion (Page-Chunk) to balance I/O efficiency, an asynchronous
latency-hiding pipeline to effectively overlap data movement with
computation, and a locality-driven management policy to enable
non-blocking, zero-copy metadata-driven cache maintenance.
2
Preliminaries
Generative Recommendation Model (GRM). Generative recom-
mendation models treat the ranking task as a sequence transduction
problem. Given a user interaction sequence H𝑢comprising 𝑃histor-
ical tokens and a candidate set C = {𝑐1,𝑐2, . . . ,𝑐𝑁}, the model aims
to estimate the relevance score𝛾𝑖for each candidate conditioned on
the historical context. As illustrated in Figure 2, the input sequence
x is constructed by concatenating the interaction sequence and
candidates:
x = [x1:𝑃; x𝑃+1:𝑃+𝑁]
(1)


MTServe: Efficient Serving for Generative Recommendation Models with Hierarchical Caches
Conference acronym ’XX, June 03–05, 2018, Woodstock, NY
CPU
!2
!1
Hierarchical Cache Store
Paged Store
!3
 !1
!2
!4
GR
Model
Onload Buffer
……
……
!3
!1
Chunk
Page
Request
Historical
New
User Sequence
❸
Item
score
Cache Manager
Metadata prep.
Page alloc.
GPU
Ranking Result
1
3
4
5
6
7
Transfer Path
Pinned buffer 1
Pinned buffer 2
……
CPU Tier
GPU Tier
2
Chunked Store
Figure 3: The overall architecture and seven-step inference workflow of MTServe.
where x1:𝑃= H𝑢and x𝑃+1:𝑃+𝑁= C, resulting in a total sequence
length of 𝑇= 𝑃+ 𝑁.
The architecture consists of 𝐿stacked blocks. An initial embed-
ding layer projects each token 𝑥𝑡into a 𝑑-dimensional vector e(0)
𝑡
.
Each block Ψ(𝑙) (1 ≤𝑙≤𝐿) performs a non-linear transformation.
Following the state-of-the-art HSTU architecture [34], each HSTU
block functions similarly to a standard Transformer block, centered
around an attention-based computation. The internal computation
of layer 𝑙is formulated as:
u(𝑙), q(𝑙), k(𝑙), v(𝑙) = Split(𝜙1(Linear(e(𝑙−1)
1:𝑇
)))
(2)
o(𝑙) = 𝜙2(Attention(q(𝑙), k(𝑙), v(𝑙)))
(3)
e(𝑙)
1:𝑇= MLP(Norm(o(𝑙) ⊙u(𝑙)))
(4)
where 𝜙1 and 𝜙2 denote the SiLU activation functions. The hidden
representations undergo 𝐿such transformations to produce the
final contextualized embeddings:
e(𝐿)
1:𝑇= Ψ(𝐿) ◦· · · ◦Ψ(1) (e(0)
1:𝑇)
(5)
Focusing on the terminal position 𝑇, the representation e(𝐿)
𝑇
is
fed into a scoring head to obtain the ranking logits y = W𝑜𝑢𝑡e(𝐿)
𝑇.
For any candidate 𝑐𝑖associated with its unique identifier token
𝜔𝑖∈V, its relevance is directly determined by the corresponding
logit value 𝑦[𝜔𝑖]. The final ranking result is produced by sorting
the candidates {𝑐1, . . . ,𝑐𝑁} in descending order of their logit values.
Serving GRMs with KV Cache. To serve GRMs efficiently, we
decompose the user history into a cached historical prefix H𝑝𝑟𝑒
(length 𝑃𝑝𝑟𝑒) and incremental tokens ΔH (length Δ𝑃) that arrived
since the last visit, such that 𝑃= 𝑃𝑝𝑟𝑒+ Δ𝑃.
When a user request arrives, the system retrieves the previously
computed Key-Value tensors (K(𝑙)
𝑝𝑟𝑒, V(𝑙)
𝑝𝑟𝑒) for H𝑝𝑟𝑒from the cache
store. The incremental input xΔ = [ΔH; C] is first projected into
the initial embedding space e(0)
Δ . For each subsequent layer 𝑙, the
model only needs to compute the projections for the hidden repre-
sentations e(𝑙−1)
Δ
derived from these new segments:
u(𝑙)
Δ , q(𝑙)
Δ , k(𝑙)
Δ , v(𝑙)
Δ = Split(𝜙1(Linear(e(𝑙−1)
Δ
)))
(6)
The complete context for the attention-like mechanism at layer 𝑙
is then assembled by concatenating the retrieved cache with the
newly generated states:
K(𝑙)
𝑡𝑜𝑡𝑎𝑙= [K(𝑙)
𝑝𝑟𝑒; k(𝑙)
Δ ],
V(𝑙)
𝑡𝑜𝑡𝑎𝑙= [V(𝑙)
𝑝𝑟𝑒; v(𝑙)
Δ ]
(7)
This user-side caching effectively decouples the inference latency
from the total history length and reduces the effective attention
complexity from 𝑂(𝑇2) to 𝑂((𝑇−𝑃𝑝𝑟𝑒) · 𝑇) per inference step.
Finally, the updated KV states for the newly processed tokens are
stored back to the cache to facilitate future reuse.
However, realizing this reuse in GR presents unique challenges.
First, the combination of a massive user base and long interaction
histories creates an immense storage demand. Unlike LLM serving
where common prefixes can be optimized via radix trees [36], GR
requires individual persistence for millions of unique user sequences.
This lack of sharing opportunities leads to a storage explosion that
far outstrips physical GPU memory capacity. Second, the cross-
request nature of recommendation demands long-term durability
across intermittent visits, rendering standard session-based, volatile
caching insufficient. Finally, the high I/O-to-computation ratio of
relatively shallow GR models, coupled with frequent state swapping
for short-lived requests, creates a severe I/O bottleneck that can
easily stall the inference pipeline.
3
MTServe Overview
We design MTServe to tackle the GPU memory bottleneck in gen-
erative recommendation, which stems from the dual challenges of
a massive user base and long interaction histories. Functioning as
a plug-and-play cache management module, MTServe integrates
seamlessly with attention-based generative models to enable ef-
ficient user-side KV cache reuse. Figure 3 illustrates the overall
architecture and the seven-step inference workflow.
3.1
System Components
MTServe comprises four primary components that collaborate to
execute high-throughput inference by efficiently managing and
utilizing the hierarchical KV cache.
• Generative Recommendation (GR) Model. The core infer-
ence engine (e.g., HSTU [34]). It interacts with the logical cache
interface provided by the KV cache manager, remaining agnostic
to the underlying physical storage and tiering logic.


Conference acronym ’XX, June 03–05, 2018, Woodstock, NY
Wang et al.
• KVCacheManager. The central controller residing on the host.
It handles metadata management, including sequence length
tracking, LRU replacement, and page table maintenance. The
page table acts as a logical-to-physical mapping structure where
each entry tracks the physical location of a fixed-length segment
(e.g., a 32-token page) of a user’s KV cache, serving as the atomic
unit for GPU memory management.
• Hierarchical Cache Store. A dual-tier storage backend (as
shown in the center of Figure 3). It consists of the CPU Tier
(Chunked Store) as a scalable backup store and the GPU Tier
(Paged Store) as the primary cache for low-latency access. Both
tiers are managed via a paging/chunking mechanism to eliminate
internal fragmentation.
• Data Transfer Path. A dedicated pipeline for moving KV blocks
between tiers. It utilizes Pinned Memory Buffers on the CPU
to enable high-speed DMA and Onload/Offload Buffers on the
GPU for data staging. This path supports asynchronous, double-
buffered transfers to overlap I/O with computation.
3.2
Inference Workflow
The lifecycle of an inference request in MTServe follows a stream-
lined seven-step workflow, as depicted by the circled numbers in
Figure 3. In our serving scenario, each incoming request encapsu-
lates a unique user identifier, a sequence of incremental interaction
tokens newly arrived since the user’s last visit, and a set of candidate
items to be ranked.
➊Metadata Preparation. Upon receiving a batch of requests,
the KVCacheManager prepares execution metadata by retrieving
cached sequence lengths, resolving page mappings, and allocat-
ing new GPU pages. If device memory is exhausted, the LRU
policy identifies victim pages for zero-copy eviction.
➋Data Onload. For requests requiring historical data from the
host (Cache Miss), the system asynchronously transfers relevant
KV blocks from the CPU Tier into a pinned memory buffer, then
via DMA to the GPU’s Onload Buffer.
➌Cache Scattering. Once the data resides in the Onload Buffer,
the system executes an intra-GPU redistribution. A dedicated
scatter kernel redistributes the contiguous data from the Onload
Buffer into pre-allocated discrete pages within the GPU Tier.
➍Model Inference. With the cache populated, the GR Model
executes the forward pass. It utilizes the page table metadatato
retrieve historical KV pairs from the Device Cache Store and
combine them with current inputs for self-attention.
➎Cache Update. The new KV states generated during the infer-
ence step are appended directly to the allocated pages in the
Device Cache Store, updating the user’s history in real time.
➏Cache Offload. A background process manages the write-back
of new KV states. When a user’s accumulated new tokens reach
a host chunk size, the corresponding GPU pages are gathered
into a transiently allocated Offload Buffer. This buffer is then
asynchronously transferred to the CPU Tier, ensuring the CPU
backend maintains a persistent record of the user history.
➐Ranking Result. Finally, the hidden representations are passed
to the scoring head to calculate relevance scores and produce the
final ranking.
4
Key Designs
This section details the system optimizations of MTServe, focus-
ing on the synergy between its hierarchical storage abstraction,
asynchronous data pipeline, and non-blocking cache management
policy. Together, these designs maximize hardware utilization and
ensure low-latency serving even under extreme memory pressure.
4.1
Paged Hierarchical Storage
Hybrid Storage Granularity. Traditional contiguous memory al-
location [19] incurs severe fragmentation when handling variable-
length user histories in recommendation systems. Specifically, static
pre-allocation leads to massive internal fragmentation as reserved
slots for long-tail users remain underutilized, while dynamic resiz-
ing causes external fragmentation that is computationally expensive
to compact during high-QPS serving. Inspired by virtual memory
systems and PagedAttention [14], MTServe implements a dual-
granularity storage strategy (Page-Chunk) tailored to the distinct
hardware characteristics of the GPU and CPU tiers, as illustrated
in the center of Figure 3.
• GPU Tier (Fine-grained Paging): On the GPU, where capac-
ity is the primary bottleneck, we adopt a fine-grained page
management strategy (e.g., 32 tokens per page). This granular-
ity reduces internal fragmentation, allowing the cache to ex-
pand dynamically with the growing sequence length. The GPU-
resident Paged Store is defined as a pre-allocated tensor of shape
[𝐿, 𝑁pages, 2,𝑆page, 𝐻, 𝐷], where 𝐿denotes layers, 𝑁pages total ca-
pacity, 𝑆page page size, and 𝐻, 𝐷the attention head dimensions.
By treating GPU memory as a pool of discrete pages, any free
slot can be allocated to any user, effectively eliminating external
fragmentation and improving HBM utilization.
• CPU Tier (Coarse-grained Chunking): Conversely, on the
Host RAM, where capacity is abundant but bandwidth is con-
strained by the PCIe interface, we manage data in coarser Chunks
(e.g., 1024 tokens). Since PCIe throughput is highly sensitive to
transaction overhead, transferring a single large chunk is signifi-
cantly more efficient than moving multiple small, discontinuous
pages. This design amortizes the startup cost of DMA transac-
tions, ensuring that the I/O subsystem can saturate the physical
link during bulk data movement.
Hierarchical Indexing Mechanism. To bridge these storage
granularities, MTServe maintains a robust indexing architecture
that acts as a logical-to-physical mapping structure. Each user is
mapped to a list of non-contiguous Logical Page IDs on the GPU
and Logical Chunk IDs on the CPU, allowing the sequence to appear
contiguous to the attention mechanism while being physically scat-
tered. A global page table translates these logical IDs into physical
addresses—resolving to tensor indices for the GPU Tier and mem-
ory pointers for the CPU Tier—serving as the atomic unit for all
memory operations. This mapping logic is replicated across layers
to ensure layer-wise independence, enabling the cascading execu-
tion pattern described in Section 4.4 where different layers can
simultaneously perform data loading, computation, and offloading.
Functional Memory Regions. As illustrated within the cyan
box in Figure 3, the GPU memory is logically partitioned into two
functional regions.


MTServe: Efficient Serving for Generative Recommendation Models with Hierarchical Caches
Conference acronym ’XX, June 03–05, 2018, Woodstock, NY
• Device Cache Store (Primary Cache): Represented as the
Paged Store in Figure 3, this is the main storage area in the GPU
Tier holding persistent KV data for active users. It utilizes the
discrete paged layout and is dynamically managed by the KV-
CacheManager to ensure that the most frequently accessed user
states remain on-device for low-latency retrieval.
• Onload Buffer: A pre-allocated contiguous region serving a dual
purpose. Primarily, it acts as an active inference area where the
model can directly access fresh data (e.g., newly loaded history
from Host Cache Store) without waiting for scattering. Secondly,
it serves as a staging ground for data layout transformation, from
which contiguous data blocks are eventually scattered into the
discrete pages of the Device Cache Store.
4.2
Efficient Data Movement
Efficiently moving KV blocks between host and device is critical
for maintaining high system throughput, especially given the high
I/O-to-computation ratio of recommendation models. We optimize
this process by employing dedicated scatter/gather kernels for GPU
memory layout transformation, reinforced by a double-buffered
pipeline designed to saturate the physical PCIe bus bandwidth.
Pipelined Onload via Double Buffering. As illustrated in Fig-
ure 3, the onload process (Step ②) is internally structured into a
two-stage pipeline. While represented as a single logical step in
the workflow, it comprises two distinct physical sub-stages: (1)
Host-side Memory Preparation, where KV blocks are gathered from
the chunked host store into a pinned memory buffer; and (2) PCIe
Transfer via DMA to the GPU’s Onload Buffer. This is followed
by the separate Cache Scattering operation (Step ③), which redis-
tributes the contiguous data from the Onload Buffer into discrete
pages within the Device Cache Store.
To orchestrate this internal pipeline efficiently, MTServe em-
ploys a fine-grained double-buffering strategy using a pair of pinned
memory buffers (Pinned Buffer 1 & 2 in Figure 3). Crucially, we
align the size of each pinned buffer with the host storage Chunk
granularity. This alignment simplifies the host-side preparation
into a high-speed sequential block copy, avoiding the heavy CPU
overhead of gathering fragmented pages from the storage pool.
Consequently, the system operates in a ping-pong fashion: while
the CPU is sequentially populating Buffer 1 with the next required
KV chunk (sub-stage 1), the DMA engine simultaneously trans-
fers the previously prepared Buffer 2 to the GPU (sub-stage 2). By
overlapping host-side orchestration with hardware I/O, MTServe
ensures that the DMA engine remains saturated and the transfer
latency is largely hidden. Finally, a custom-optimized scatter kernel
(Step ③) distributes the contiguous data from the Onload Buffer
into discrete physical pages within the GPU Tier.
Transient Offload Pipeline. To ensure long-term durability and
enable non-blocking cache reclamation, MTServe employs a proac-
tive offloading strategy rather than a reactive one. As shown in Step
⑥of Figure 3, the offload process operates as a background task
to persist new KV states to the CPU Tier before they are targeted
for eviction. By maintaining a consistent and up-to-date backup
on the host, the system can reclaim GPU pages via simple meta-
data updates, avoiding the latency spikes associated with forced
0.00
0.25
0.50
0.75
1.00
1.25
1.50
1.75
Request Interval (seconds, ×106)
101
103
105
Frequency (log scale)
Figure 4: Distribution of arrival intervals between consecu-
tive requests from the same user. The heavy-tailed distribu-
tion indicates that most users return within a short period,
exhibiting strong temporal locality.
synchronization during memory pressure. The pipeline is triggered
when a user’s accumulated new tokens reach the pre-defined host
chunk size, initiating the following sequence: (1) A gather kernel
collects dispersed pages from the GPU Tier into a transiently al-
located GPU Offload Buffer; (2) The data is transferred via DMA
to one of the host Pinned Buffers; and (3) A multi-threaded CPU
worker pool copies the data from the Pinned Buffer to the final
Chunked Host Cache. Similar to the onload path, the use of dual
Pinned Buffers allows the DMA transfer and the CPU-side copy to
execute in parallel. This multi-threaded orchestration is crucial to
match the high throughput of the DMA stream, ensuring that the
proactive persistence remains strictly non-blocking and does not
become a bottleneck for the primary inference stream.
Offload Capacity Control. To prevent GPU memory exhaustion
from transient buffer accumulation, MTServe enforces a strict
quota on the total volume of pending offload tasks. The system
tracks the aggregate tokens currently queued in GPU transient
buffers; if a new offload task would cause this total to exceed the
pre-configured limit, the task is rejected via an admission control
mechanism. This acts as a critical backpressure valve, ensuring that
background maintenance tasks do not destabilize the primary infer-
ence service by consuming excessive VRAM, thereby guaranteeing
system reliability even under extreme heavy traffic bursts.
4.3
Cache Management
Effective cache management hinges on exploiting the temporal
patterns inherent in user traffic. As shown in Figure 4, the arrival
intervals of consecutive requests from the same user exhibit a heavy-
tailed distribution, where the majority of requests occur within a
short temporal window. This strong temporal locality motivates
the adoption of a Least-Recently-Used (LRU) policy, which priori-
tizes retaining recently active users in the limited GPU memory to
maximize the cache hit ratio.
Allocation and Eviction Policy. To implement the LRU policy
efficiently at scale, MTServe maintains a global doubly-linked list
augmented with an auxiliary hash map to ensure 𝑂(1) access and
update complexity. This constant-time performance is vital for
maintaining low latency as the number of managed user sessions
grows into the millions. Page allocation is tightly coupled with


Conference acronym ’XX, June 03–05, 2018, Woodstock, NY
Wang et al.
this policy: when the system requires pages for a new request or
incremental token generation, it first attempts to draw from the free
pool. If the pool is exhausted, the system reclaims pages from the tail
of the LRU list, targeting the least recently active users. Crucially,
this reclamation is designed as a zero-copy metadata operation. Since
the Host Cache Store (CPU Tier) serves as the ultimate backup store
and data persistence is handled asynchronously by the background
offload process, victim pages on the GPU can be simply marked
as free in the page table without triggering any blocking device-
to-host transfer. This design ensures that cache maintenance tasks
impose negligible latency overhead on the critical inference path.
User Locking Protocol. To ensure memory safety and data con-
sistency during concurrent operations, we enforce a strict User
Locking protocol. Users currently undergoing background offload
(Step ⑥in Figure 3), where their pages are being read by the DMA
engine, are marked in a locked registry. The LRU policy explicitly
skips these locked users during victim selection to prevent race
conditions where physical pages might be prematurely reclaimed
or overwritten while still being accessed by the transfer pipeline.
This coordination guarantees that the memory hierarchy remains
consistent even under high-concurrency workloads.
4.4
Asynchronous Pipelining
We orchestrate the aforementioned components using a multi-
stream execution model to maximize hardware utilization. The
detailed end-to-end inference workflow and the corresponding
pseudocode Algorithm 1 are provided in Appendix A.
Four-Stream Concurrency. MTServe utilizes four indepen-
dent, non-blocking CUDA streams to overlap disparate workloads,
effectively functioning as a producer-consumer system: (1) Compute
Stream for core model execution, including the Transformer-based
forward pass (Step 8); (2) Onload Stream for host-to-device DMA
transfers to retrieve historical KV chunks (initiated in Step 2); (3)
Scatter Stream for intra-GPU data redistribution from the onload
buffer to the paged store (initiated in Step 7); and (4) Offload Stream
for background persistence by transferring new KV states back to
the host (initiated in Step 9). Dependencies between these streams
are managed via fine-grained CUDA events to ensure correct exe-
cution order without global stalls. This multi-stream design allows
the system to preprocess metadata and prepare embeddings (Steps
3–6) in parallel with the heavy KV data movement occurring in the
Onload Stream.
Fine-Grained Layer-wise Synchronization. A critical opti-
mization in our design is the implicit layer-wise synchronization
(Step 8.3). Instead of a coarse-grained barrier that waits for the
entire batch’s data to be loaded, we implement a staggered exe-
cution mechanism using KVOnloadHandle. Before executing the
attention mechanism for Layer 𝑙, the Compute Stream waits specif-
ically for the completion event of Layer 𝑙’s scatter operation. This
allows the computation of shallower layers to proceed immediately
once their specific data is ready, even if the transfer for deeper lay-
ers is still in progress. By deeply overlapping the memory-bound
data movement with the compute-bound attention mechanism, MT-
Serve significantly reduces the end-to-end inference latency and
mitigates the impact of the high I/O-to-computation ratio.
5
Experimental Evaluation
In this section, we conduct a comprehensive evaluation of MTServe
to validate its effectiveness in generative recommendation scenar-
ios. Specifically, we aim to answer the following three research
questions:
• RQ1 (Latency Reduction): How effectively does MTServe re-
duce end-to-end inference latency compared to standard base-
lines, and how does its performance scale as the batch size in-
creases?
• RQ2 (Cache Efficiency): How effectively does the hierarchi-
cal caching strategy maintain a high token hit ratio under con-
strained GPU memory budgets, and how does this translate to
computational savings?
• RQ3 (System Overhead): Is the overhead introduced by com-
plex metadata management and tiered data movement negligible
compared to the massive computational gains?
5.1
Experimental Settings
Model Architecture. We employ the Hierarchical Sequential Trans-
duction Unit (HSTU) [34] as our backbone model. HSTU is a state-
of-the-art generative recommendation architecture designed to cap-
ture long-term user interests with high efficiency. While our evalua-
tion focuses on HSTU, the proposed MTServe system is generic and
compatible with other attention-based generative recommenders
such as SASRec [12] and BERT4Rec [25]. The specific model con-
figuration used in our experiments consists of 8 Transformer-based
layers, 4 attention heads, and a hidden dimension of 128 per head,
totaling a model size and complexity for large-scale deployment.
Cache Configuration. By default, MTServe is configured with
a page size of 32 tokens, a primary cache of 40,960 pages, and an
offload chunk size of 1024 tokens.
Baselines. To rigorously evaluate the performance benefits, we
compare MTServe against two representative serving paradigms.
• RE (Recompute): This paradigm, exemplified by standard imple-
mentations of HSTU [34] and OneRec [6], re-encodes the entire
user interaction history for every inference request. It serves as
the performance lower bound, representing systems without any
cross-request KV caching optimization.
• GPU-Only Cache: A standard industry practice that stores KV
states exclusively in high-bandwidth GPU memory, like BAT [26],
and OneTrans [35]. Due to the limited VRAM capacity, it employs
a strict LRU eviction policy. Once the GPU memory is full, the
least recently used user sessions are evicted and permanently
lost, forcing an expensive re-computation upon their next arrival.
Evaluation Metrics. We evaluate the system using Average La-
tency (ms) and Token Hit Ratio (%), where the latter represents
the percentage of historical tokens retrieved from the hierarchical
cache relative to the total sequence length.
Datasets and Preprocessing. We utilize two datasets to evaluate
MTServe under different scenarios. (1) KuaiRand-1K1: A public
sequential recommendation benchmark from the video-sharing
1KuaiRand Dataset: https://kuairand.com/


MTServe: Efficient Serving for Generative Recommendation Models with Hierarchical Caches
Conference acronym ’XX, June 03–05, 2018, Woodstock, NY
Table 1: End-to-end latency (ms), speedup, and hit ratio comparison across batch sizes (BS) of 1, 4, and 8. MTServe consistently
outperforms baselines on both the public KuaiRand-1K and the production MT dataset.
Dataset
Metric
BS=1
BS=4
BS=8
Method
Recomp.
GPU-Only
MTServe
Recomp.
GPU-Only
MTServe
Recomp.
GPU-Only
MTServe
KuaiRand-1K
Latency (ms)
21.2
17.4
14.4
72.8
42.1
33.5
143.6
72.9
47.3
Speedup (vs. RE)
1.00×
1.22×
1.47×
1.00×
1.73×
2.17×
1.00×
1.97×
3.04×
GPU Hit Ratio
-
63.52%
63.52%
-
63.92%
63.92%
-
64.36%
64.36%
Total Hit Ratio
-
63.52%
94.66%
-
63.92%
98.57%
-
64.36%
98.59%
MT
Latency (ms)
14.1
12.8
11.7
43.6
28.9
17.3
82.4
48.6
26.6
Speedup (vs. RE)
1.00×
1.10×
1.21×
1.00×
1.51×
2.52×
1.00×
1.70×
3.10×
GPU Hit Ratio
-
60.26%
60.26%
-
60.69%
60.69%
-
61.73%
61.73%
Total Hit Ratio
-
60.26%
96.73%
-
60.69%
97.44%
-
61.73%
98.71%
Table 2: Latency decomposition (ms) of the inference pipeline on KuaiRand-1K. The step labels correspond to the stages defined
in Algorithm 1. MTServe significantly reduces the execution time of core inference (Step 8).
Batch Size
BS=1
BS=4
BS=8
Method
Recomp.
GPU-Only
MTServe
Recomp.
GPU-Only
MTServe
Recomp.
GPU-Only
MTServe
Step 1-2. Prepare Metadata
-
0.1
0.1
-
0.1
0.1
-
0.1
0.1
Step 3. Strip Tokens
-
0.4
0.5
-
0.4
0.6
-
0.5
0.6
Step 4. Embedding
2.2
1.2
1.5
5.0
1.3
1.5
9.7
1.5
1.5
Step 5. Data Layout
1.9
1.6
2.0
3.4
2.4
2.9
5.7
3.6
3.6
Step 6. Await Metadata
-
0.01
0.1
-
0.1
0.1
-
0.1
0.1
Step 7. Update Metadata
-
0.05
0.2
-
0.05
0.4
-
0.05
0.7
Step 8. HSTU Inference
16.7
13.5
9.4
63.9
37.1
27.1
127.4
66.3
39.8
Step 9. Offload KV
-
-
0.03
-
-
0.03
-
-
0.03
Step 10. Postprocess
0.5
0.5
0.5
0.6
0.6
0.6
0.8
0.7
0.7
platform Kuaishou. To simulate a realistic streaming workload, we
organize user behaviors by timestamp and segment them into indi-
vidual requests (e.g., 60-second intervals), mimicking the temporal
arrival patterns of online services. (2) MT Dataset: A production
dataset featuring approximately 3,000 users with exceptionally long
interaction histories. We specifically filter for long-sequence inter-
actions to assess the system’s robustness under sustained memory
pressure and its ability to maximize history reuse. Detailed statistics
for both datasets are provided in Appendix B.
Hardware and Implementation. All experiments are conducted
on a high-performance server node equipped with an NVIDIA
A100 GPU (80GB HBM2). The host side features 184 CPU cores
and 928 GB of DDR4 RAM, serving as the backup store for our
hierarchical cache. MTServe is implemented using PyTorch, with
critical performance components such as scatter/gather kernels
and metadata management implemented as custom CUDA and C++
extensions to minimize software-side overhead.
5.2
Overall Performance (RQ1 & RQ2)
We evaluate the end-to-end performance and latency decomposition
of MTServe across different workloads, including a smaller model
variant (detailed in Appendix D.1).
RQ1: Latency Reduction. As shown in Table 1, MTServe con-
sistently achieves the lowest latency across all batch sizes and
datasets, demonstrating superior scalability compared to both RE
and GPU-Only baselines. On KuaiRand-1K, MTServe provides a
1.47× speedup at BS=1, which scales to 3.04× at BS=8 (47.3 ms vs.
143.6 ms). The performance gain is even more pronounced on the
production MT dataset, where MTServe achieves a 3.10× speedup
at BS=8 (26.6 ms vs. 82.4 ms). The higher recompute latency on
KuaiRand-1K (143.6 ms vs. 82.4 ms) is due to its much longer se-
quences (Table 4). The 20,000-token sequences in KuaiRand-1K
create a significant bottleneck that slows down the entire batch.
The primary source of this gain is further revealed in the latency
decomposition (Table 2). The computational cost in Step 8 (HSTU
Inference) is drastically reduced; at BS=8, MTServe completes the
core inference in 39.8 ms, while the RE baseline requires 127.4
ms due to the exhaustive re-encoding of the entire user history.
This trend confirms that MTServe successfully decouples inference
latency from the total history length, transforming the generative
recommendation task from a compute-intensive encoding problem
into an efficient, retrieval-based process.
RQ2: Cache Efficiency and Hit Ratio. The performance advan-
tage of MTServe is rooted in its ability to maintain a near-perfect
hit ratio by breaking the GPU memory wall. While the GPU-Only
baseline is capped at a GPU hit ratio of ≈60%–64% due to VRAM
limits (Table 1), MTServe utilizes host RAM as a backup store to
achieve a total hit ratio of 94.6%–98.7%.
Specifically, on the MT dataset, the host tier successfully sup-
plements the 61.73% GPU hit ratio to reach a 98.71% total hit
ratio at BS=8. This high hit ratio remains stable across batch sizes,
demonstrating that our LRU-based policy and hierarchical stor-
age successfully capture the temporal locality of user traffic. By


Conference acronym ’XX, June 03–05, 2018, Woodstock, NY
Wang et al.
Table 3: Impact of Chunk Size on inference latency (ms).
Chunk Size
512
1024
2048
4096
Wait Time (I/O)
34.64
23.11
22.22
19.09
Comp Time (Kernel)
12.66
13.35
14.79
17.74
End2end Latency
57.6
47.3
49.2
49.9
shifting the workload from redundant re-computation to efficient
KV retrieval, MTServe significantly reduces the execution time
of the attention mechanism, achieving a 1.67× speedup in Step
8 compared to the GPU-Only baseline at BS=8 (39.8 ms vs. 66.3
ms). These results validate MTServe’s readiness for industrial-scale
deployment, where the active working set of user states frequently
exceeds physical device limits.
5.3
System Overhead Analysis (RQ3)
We examine the fine-grained execution costs of each pipeline stage
to assess the system overhead introduced by MTServe. As shown
in the latency decomposition in Table 2, the system maintains high
efficiency by keeping control-plane operations minimal.
• Metadata and Control Overhead: The combined CPU over-
head for metadata preparation, page table resolution, and syn-
chronization (Steps 1, 2, 6, and 7) remains remarkably low, totaling
less than 1 ms even at BS=8. This confirms that our chunk-based
indexing and zero-copy eviction policy introduce negligible com-
putational burden.
• Asynchronous Offload Efficiency: The initiation of the back-
ground offload process (Step 9) consumes only 0.03 ms. As
designed in Section 4.2, the actual KV transfer is handled by
background threads, ensuring that the persistence of user states
imposes zero blocking latency on the critical inference path.
• I/O vs. Computation Trade-off: MTServe trades expensive
re-computation (127.4 ms) for significantly cheaper KV restora-
tion (39.8 ms). This 39.8 ms represents the effective critical path
where incremental computation overlaps with I/O. The net sav-
ing of 87.6 ms proves that the I/O penalty of moving data is
far outweighed by the computational savings of attention reuse,
confirming that our pipeline successfully masks the majority of
transfer overhead.
5.4
Sensitivity and Micro-Benchmarks
Impact of Offload Chunk Size. We examine the impact of Offload
Chunk Size on the trade-off between data movement and computa-
tion. To quantify this, we instrument the core HSTU inference loop
(Step 8) to separately measure the synchronization overhead (Wait
Time) and the kernel execution time (Comp Time).
As shown in Table 3, increasing the chunk size from 512 to 4096
tokens significantly reduces the Wait Time (34.64 ms →17.09 ms).
This reduction is driven by two factors: first, a coarser granularity
amortizes fixed PCIe transaction overhead; second, larger chunks
reduce the total data volume transferred by allowing longer "tail"
segments to remain on the GPU without being persisted to the host.
However, this I/O saving comes at the cost of increased Comp Time
(12.66 ms →17.74 ms), a phenomenon governed by the persistence
20480
30720
40960
51200
61440
Number of Blocks in Primary Cache
0
20
40
60
80
Latency (ms)
56.2
84.7
32.8
58.9
23.1
47.3
18.2
41.3
14.5
37.0
Wait Time (I/O)
Other Latency
GPU Hit Ratio
0
20
40
60
80
100
GPU Hit Ratio (%)
Figure 5: Impact of GPU Cache Store capacity on on latency
components and cache hit ratio.
threshold. Since MTServe only backs up KV states to the CPU tier
once they accumulate into a full chunk, any un-offloaded tail tokens
are lost if the user is evicted from the GPU. Consequently, these
missing segments must be re-encoded from scratch during the next
visit to reconstruct the sequence context, thereby increasing the
computational burden. We select 1024 as the default configuration,
as it captures the steepest drop in Wait Time while minimizing the
extra computational burden associated with larger chunks.
Impact of GPU Cache Capacity. We evaluate system robustness
by adjusting the Primary Cache capacity from 20,480 to 61,440
blocks. As shown in Figure 5, increasing the capacity significantly
improves the GPU Hit Ratio, leading to a sharp decline in I/O wait
time. However, this performance gain comes at the cost of a higher
memory footprint; as detailed in Table 6, the VRAM consumption
scales from 10 GB to 30 GB across these settings. Notably, even at the
most constrained setting (20,480 blocks, 10 GB VRAM), MTServe
still achieves an end-to-end latency of 84.7 ms, representing a
1.69× speedup over the RE baseline (143.6 ms).
Memory Footprint Analysis We profile the peak GPU memory
usage during inference to identify the primary resource consumers.
Our analysis reveals that the KV Cache is the dominant component,
occupying over 59% of the total 41.67 GB footprint. A detailed
breakdown of the memory components is provided in Appendix C.
6
Conclusion and Future Directions
This paper presented MTServe, a hierarchical KV cache system that
overcomes the GPU memory wall for reusing the KV caches in serv-
ing generative recommendation models. MTServe achieves high
efficiency with extensive system optimizations including paged
hierarchical storage, efficient data movement, and asynchronous
pipelining. Experiment results show that MTServe can speed up
model inference by up to a 3.1×.
Moving forward, we will explore three interesting directions:
(i) applying compression techniques to the KV caches to improve
the effective storage capacity and reduce data movement costs; (ii)
deepening the storage hierarchy to include local NVMe SSDs to
enlarge cache size and store cold users; (iii) enabling cross-machine
transfer of the KV caches for scheduling and load balance.


MTServe: Efficient Serving for Generative Recommendation Models with Hierarchical Caches
Conference acronym ’XX, June 03–05, 2018, Woodstock, NY
References
[1] Jiangxia Cao, Shuo Yang, Zijun Wang, and Qinghai Tan. 2025. OnePiece: The Great
Route to Generative Recommendation–A Case Study from Tencent Algorithm
Competition. arXiv preprint arXiv:2512.07424 (2025).
[2] Junyi Chen, Lu Chi, Bingyue Peng, and Zehuan Yuan. 2024. Hllm: Enhancing
sequential recommendations via hierarchical large language models for item and
user modeling. arXiv preprint arXiv:2409.12740 (2024).
[3] Heng-Tze Cheng, Levent Koc, Jeremiah Harmsen, Tal Shaked, Tushar Chandra,
Hrishi Aradhye, Glen Anderson, Greg Corrado, Wei Chai, Mustafa Ispir, et al.
2016. Wide & deep learning for recommender systems. In Proceedings of the 1st
workshop on deep learning for recommender systems. 7–10.
[4] Paul Covington, Jay Adams, and Emre Sargin. 2016. Deep neural networks
for youtube recommendations. In Proceedings of the 10th ACM conference on
recommender systems. 191–198.
[5] Sunhao Dai, Jiakai Tang, Jiahua Wu, Kun Wang, Yuxuan Zhu, Bingjun Chen,
Bangyang Hong, Yu Zhao, Cong Fu, Kangle Wu, et al. 2025. Onepiece: Bringing
context engineering and reasoning to industrial cascade ranking system. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2509.18091 (2025).
[6] Jiaxin Deng, Shiyao Wang, Kuo Cai, Lejian Ren, Qigen Hu, Weifeng Ding, Qiang
Luo, and Guorui Zhou. 2025. Onerec: Unifying retrieve and rank with generative
recommender and iterative preference alignment. arXiv preprint arXiv:2502.18965
(2025).
[7] Yijie Ding, Jiacheng Li, Julian McAuley, and Yupeng Hou. 2024.
Inductive
generative recommendation via retrieval-based speculation.
arXiv preprint
arXiv:2410.02939 (2024).
[8] Yue Dong, Han Li, Shen Li, Nikhil Patel, Xing Liu, Xiaodong Wang, and Chuanhao
Zhuge. 2025. Scaling Generative Recommendations with Context Parallelism
on Hierarchical Sequential Transducers. In Proceedings of the Nineteenth ACM
Conference on Recommender Systems. 1058–1061.
[9] Huifeng Guo, TANG Ruiming, Yunming Ye, Zhenguo Li, and Xiuqiang He. 2017.
DeepFM: A Factorization-Machine based Neural Network for CTR Prediction. In
Proceedings of the Twenty-Sixth International Joint Conference on Artificial Intelli-
gence. International Joint Conferences on Artificial Intelligence Organization.
[10] Ruidong Han, Bin Yin, Shangyu Chen, He Jiang, Fei Jiang, Xiang Li, Chi Ma,
Mincong Huang, Xiaoguang Li, Chunzhen Jing, et al. 2025. Mtgr: Industrial-
scale generative recommendation framework in meituan. In Proceedings of the
34th ACM International Conference on Information and Knowledge Management.
5731–5738.
[11] Yanhua Huang, Yuqi Chen, Xiong Cao, Rui Yang, Mingliang Qi, Yinghao Zhu,
Qingchang Han, Yaowei Liu, Zhaoyu Liu, Xuefeng Yao, et al. 2025. Towards
Large-scale Generative Ranking. arXiv preprint arXiv:2505.04180 (2025).
[12] Wang-Cheng Kang and Julian McAuley. 2018. Self-attentive sequential recom-
mendation. In 2018 IEEE international conference on data mining (ICDM). IEEE,
197–206.
[13] Tongyoung Kim, Soojin Yoon, Seongku Kang, Jinyoung Yeo, and Dongha Lee.
2024. SC-Rec: Enhancing generative retrieval with self-consistent reranking for
sequential recommendation. arXiv preprint arXiv:2408.08686 (2024).
[14] Woosuk Kwon, Zhuohan Li, Siyuan Zhuang, Ying Sheng, Lianmin Zheng,
Cody Hao Yu, Joseph Gonzalez, Hao Zhang, and Ion Stoica. 2023. Efficient
memory management for large language model serving with pagedattention. In
Proceedings of the 29th symposium on operating systems principles. 611–626.
[15] Yaoyiran Li, Xiang Zhai, Moustafa Alzantot, Keyi Yu, Ivan Vulić, Anna Korhonen,
and Mohamed Hammad. 2024. Calrec: Contrastive alignment of generative llms
for sequential recommendation. In Proceedings of the 18th ACM Conference on
Recommender Systems. 422–432.
[16] Fake Lin, Binbin Hu, Zhi Zheng, Xi Zhu, Ziqi Liu, Zhiqiang Zhang, Jun Zhou, and
Tong Xu. 2026. Token-level Collaborative Alignment for LLM-based Generative
Recommendation. arXiv preprint arXiv:2601.18457 (2026).
[17] Enze Liu, Bowen Zheng, Cheng Ling, Lantao Hu, Han Li, and Wayne Xin Zhao.
2025. Generative recommender with end-to-end learnable item tokenization.
In Proceedings of the 48th International ACM SIGIR Conference on Research and
Development in Information Retrieval. 729–739.
[18] Xinchen Luo, Jiangxia Cao, Tianyu Sun, Jinkai Yu, Rui Huang, Wei Yuan, Hezheng
Lin, Yichen Zheng, Shiyao Wang, Qigen Hu, et al. 2025. Qarm: Quantitative
alignment multi-modal recommendation at kuaishou. In Proceedings of the 34th
ACM International Conference on Information and Knowledge Management. 5915–
5922.
[19] NVIDIA.
2023.
FasterTransformer.
https://github.com/NVIDIA/
FasterTransformer.
[20] Fabian Paischer, Liu Yang, Linfeng Liu, Shuai Shao, Kaveh Hassani, Jiacheng Li,
Ricky Chen, Zhang Gabriel Li, Xiaoli Gao, Wei Shao, et al. 2024. Preference dis-
cerning with LLM-Enhanced generative retrieval. arXiv preprint arXiv:2412.08604
(2024).
[21] Gustavo Penha, Ali Vardasbi, Enrico Palumbo, Marco De Nadai, and Hugues
Bouchard. 2024. Bridging Search and Recommendation in Generative Retrieval:
Does One Task Help the Other?. In Proceedings of the 18th ACM Conference on
Recommender Systems. 340–349.
[22] Bryan Perozzi, Rami Al-Rfou, and Steven Skiena. 2014. Deepwalk: Online learning
of social representations. In Proceedings of the 20th ACM SIGKDD international
conference on Knowledge discovery and data mining. 701–710.
[23] Shashank Rajput, Nikhil Mehta, Anima Singh, Raghunandan Hulikal Keshavan,
Trung Vu, Lukasz Heldt, Lichan Hong, Yi Tay, Vinh Tran, Jonah Samost, et al.
2023. Recommender systems with generative retrieval. Advances in Neural
Information Processing Systems 36 (2023), 10299–10315.
[24] Minglai Shao, Hua Huang, Qiyao Peng, and Hongtao Liu. 2024. ULMRec: User-
centric large language model for sequential recommendation. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2412.05543 (2024).
[25] Fei Sun, Jun Liu, Jian Wu, Changhua Pei, Xiao Lin, Wenwu Ou, and Peng Jiang.
2019. BERT4Rec: Sequential recommendation with bidirectional encoder rep-
resentations from transformer. In Proceedings of the 28th ACM international
conference on information and knowledge management. 1441–1450.
[26] Jie Sun, Shaohang Wang, Zimo Zhang, Zhengyu Liu, Yunlong Xu, Peng Sun, Bo
Zhao, Bingsheng He, Fei Wu, and Zeke Wang. 2026. Bat: Efficient Generative
Recommender Serving with Bipartite Attention. In Proceedings of the 31st In-
ternational Conference on Architectural Support for Programming Languages and
Operating Systems (ASPLOS).
[27] Chunqi Wang, Bingchao Wu, Zheng Chen, Lei Shen, Bing Wang, and Xiaoyi Zeng.
2025. Scaling transformers for discriminative recommendation via generative
pretraining. In Proceedings of the 31st ACM SIGKDD Conference on Knowledge
Discovery and Data Mining V. 2. 2893–2903.
[28] Jizhe Wang, Pipei Huang, Huan Zhao, Zhibo Zhang, Binqiang Zhao, and Dik Lun
Lee. 2018. Billion-scale commodity embedding for e-commerce recommendation
in alibaba. In Proceedings of the 24th ACM SIGKDD international conference on
knowledge discovery & data mining. 839–848.
[29] Ruoxi Wang, Bin Fu, Gang Fu, and Mingliang Wang. 2017. Deep & cross network
for ad click predictions. In Proceedings of the ADKDD’17. 1–7.
[30] Yuxiang Wang, Xiao Yan, Chi Ma, Mincong Huang, Xiaoguang Li, Lei Yu, Chuan
Liu, Ruidong Han, He Jiang, Bin Yin, Shangyu Chen, Fei Jiang, Xiang Li, Wei
Lin, Haowei Han, Bo Du, and Jiawei Jiang. 2025. MTGenRec: An Efficient Dis-
tributed Training System for Generative Recommendation Models in Meituan.
arXiv:2505.12663 [cs.DC] https://arxiv.org/abs/2505.12663
[31] Songpei Xu, Shijia Wang, Da Guo, Xianwen Guo, Qiang Xiao, Bin Huang, Guanlin
Wu, and Chuanjiang Luo. 2025. Climber: Toward Efficient Scaling Laws for Large
Recommendation Models. In Proceedings of the 34th ACM International Conference
on Information and Knowledge Management. 6193–6200.
[32] Liu Yang, Fabian Paischer, Kaveh Hassani, Jiacheng Li, Shuai Shao, Zhang Gabriel
Li, Yun He, Xue Feng, Nima Noorshams, Sem Park, et al. 2024. Unifying gen-
erative and dense retrieval for sequential recommendation.
arXiv preprint
arXiv:2411.18814 (2024).
[33] Jun Yin, Zhengxin Zeng, Mingzheng Li, Hao Yan, Chaozhuo Li, Weihao Han,
Jianjin Zhang, Ruochen Liu, Allen Sun, Denvy Deng, et al. 2024. Unleash LLMs
potential for recommendation by coordinating twin-tower dynamic semantic
token generator. arXiv preprint arXiv:2409.09253 (2024).
[34] Jiaqi Zhai, Lucy Liao, Xing Liu, Yueming Wang, Rui Li, Xuan Cao, Leon Gao,
Zhaojie Gong, Fangda Gu, Jiayuan He, et al. 2024. Actions speak louder than
words: trillion-parameter sequential transducers for generative recommendations.
In Proceedings of the 41st International Conference on Machine Learning. 58484–
58509.
[35] Zhaoqi Zhang, Haolei Pei, Jun Guo, Tianyu Wang, Yufei Feng, Hui Sun, Shaowei
Liu, and Aixin Sun. 2025. OneTrans: Unified Feature Interaction and Sequence
Modeling with One Transformer in Industrial Recommender. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2510.26104 (2025).
[36] Lianmin Zheng, Liangsheng Yin, Zhiqiang Xie, Chuyue Livia Sun, Jeff Huang,
Cody Hao Yu, Shiyi Cao, Christos Kozyrakis, Ion Stoica, Joseph E Gonzalez,
et al. 2024. Sglang: Efficient execution of structured language model programs.
Advances in neural information processing systems 37 (2024), 62557–62583.
[37] Guorui Zhou, Hengrui Hu, Hongtao Cheng, Huanjie Wang, Jiaxin Deng, Jinghao
Zhang, Kuo Cai, Lejian Ren, Lu Ren, Liao Yu, et al. 2025. Onerec-v2 technical
report. arXiv preprint arXiv:2508.20900 (2025).
[38] Guorui Zhou, Na Mou, Ying Fan, Qi Pi, Weijie Bian, Chang Zhou, Xiaoqiang
Zhu, and Kun Gai. 2019. Deep interest evolution network for click-through rate
prediction. In Proceedings of the AAAI conference on artificial intelligence, Vol. 33.
5941–5948.
[39] Guorui Zhou, Xiaoqiang Zhu, Chenru Song, Ying Fan, Han Zhu, Xiao Ma, Yanghui
Yan, Junqi Jin, Han Li, and Kun Gai. 2018. Deep interest network for click-through
rate prediction. In Proceedings of the 24th ACM SIGKDD international conference
on knowledge discovery & data mining. 1059–1068.
[40] Yaochen Zhu, Harald Steck, Dawen Liang, Yinhan He, Nathan Kallus, and Jundong
Li. 2025. Llm-based conversational recommendation agents with collaborative
verbalized experience. Proceedings of the Proc. of EMNLP Findings (2025), 2207–
2220.


Conference acronym ’XX, June 03–05, 2018, Woodstock, NY
Wang et al.
A
Pseudocode
Algorithm 1 illustrates the inference pipeline of the generative rec-
ommendation model integrated with our hierarchical KV cache
manager. Specifically, the pipeline initiates metadata preparation
and KV onloading in the background (Lines 1–2) while concurrently
processing input embeddings (Lines 3–5). Metadata tasks, such as
page allocation and LRU-driven eviction, are offloaded to the CPU
to avoid stalling the main inference thread. Synchronization is per-
formed implicitly within the transformer layers (Line 8.3) to ensure
data availability before attention computation, allowing the trans-
fer of deeper KV states to overlap with the computation of initial
layers. Finally, the system performs a non-blocking asynchronous
offload of the updated cache (Line 9), ensuring state persistence
without extending the request latency.
B
Dataset Statistics
Table 4: Statistics of the Evaluation Datasets.
Dataset
#Users
#Reqs.
Min
Max
Avg
Kuai
Rand-1k
1,000
1,181,699
1
20,000
6,375
MT
2,884
1,972,438
4,000
6,000
5,189
This section provides the key statistics for the evaluation datasets.
Table 4 summarizes the user count, total requests, and the distribu-
tion of sequence lengths.
Algorithm 1 Overall HSTU Inference Pipeline using Asynchronous Paged KV Cache Management.
Require: 𝐼𝑛𝑝𝑢𝑡𝐵𝑎𝑡𝑐ℎ: a batch of user and feature IDs;
𝐴𝑠𝑦𝑛𝑐𝐾𝑉𝐶𝑎𝑐ℎ𝑒𝑀𝑎𝑛𝑎𝑔𝑒𝑟: a manager for offloading/onloading KVs, page allocation, and LRU eviction.
Ensure: 𝑂𝑢𝑡𝑝𝑢𝑡𝐿𝑜𝑔𝑖𝑡𝑠: final ranking scores for all users in the batch.
1: 1. Fetch Cache Lengths: Retrieve users’ total historical sequence length.
2:
𝑇𝑜𝑡𝑎𝑙𝐻𝑖𝑠𝑡𝐿𝑒𝑛𝑔𝑡ℎ𝑒𝑠←AsyncKVCacheManager.get_total_cache_length(𝐼𝑛𝑝𝑢𝑡𝐵𝑎𝑡𝑐ℎ.𝑢𝑠𝑒𝑟𝑠)
3: 2. Asynchronously Prepare Metadata and Onload KVs: Initiate background page allocation, LRU ranking, and asynchronous transfer
of historical KVs from host to GPU onload buffer.
4:
𝑀𝑒𝑡𝑎𝑑𝑎𝑡𝑎𝐹𝑢𝑡,𝑂𝑛𝑙𝑜𝑎𝑑𝐹𝑢𝑡←AsyncKVCacheManager.SubmitPrepareMetadataAndOnloadAsync(TotalHistLengthes, batch_size)
5: 3. Preprocess Input Tokens: Strip cached history tokens from inputs.
6:
𝑆𝑡𝑟𝑖𝑝𝑝𝑒𝑑𝐵𝑎𝑡𝑐ℎ←AsyncKVCacheManager.strip_cached_tokens(𝐼𝑛𝑝𝑢𝑡𝐵𝑎𝑡𝑐ℎ)
7: 4. Compute Embeddings: Generate embeddings for non-cached inputs.
8:
𝐸𝑚𝑏𝑒𝑑𝑑𝑖𝑛𝑔𝑠←EmbeddingCollection(𝑆𝑡𝑟𝑖𝑝𝑝𝑒𝑑𝐵𝑎𝑡𝑐ℎ.𝑓𝑒𝑎𝑡𝑢𝑟𝑒𝑠)
9: 5. Transform Data Layout: Convert embeddings into JaggedArray for HSTU input.
10:
𝐽𝑎𝑔𝑔𝑒𝑑𝐷𝑎𝑡𝑎←HSTUBlock.preprocessor(𝐸𝑚𝑏𝑒𝑑𝑑𝑖𝑛𝑔𝑠,𝑆𝑡𝑟𝑖𝑝𝑝𝑒𝑑𝐵𝑎𝑡𝑐ℎ)
11: 6. Await Metadata (Blocking): Wait until metadata preparation (page allocation, LRU) is fully complete. (Note: Onload operation
proceeds asynchronously in the background.)
12:
𝐾𝑉𝐶𝑎𝑐ℎ𝑒𝑀𝑒𝑡𝑎𝑑𝑎𝑡𝑎←AsyncKVCacheManager.AwaitMetadata(𝑀𝑒𝑡𝑎𝑑𝑎𝑡𝑎𝐹𝑢𝑡)
13: 7. Update Metadata and Commit: Update metadata to include lengths of the newly arrived batch sequence and commit the onloaded
data from the buffer into the main paged cache.
14:
𝐾𝑉𝐶𝑎𝑐ℎ𝑒𝑀𝑒𝑡𝑎𝑑𝑎𝑡𝑎.𝑡𝑜𝑡𝑎𝑙_ℎ𝑖𝑠𝑡𝑜𝑟𝑦_𝑜𝑓𝑓𝑠𝑒𝑡𝑠+= 𝐽𝑎𝑔𝑔𝑒𝑑𝐷𝑎𝑡𝑎.𝑛𝑢𝑚_𝑜𝑓𝑓𝑠𝑒𝑡𝑠
15:
𝐾𝑉𝐶𝑎𝑐ℎ𝑒𝑀𝑒𝑡𝑎𝑑𝑎𝑡𝑎.𝑡𝑜𝑡𝑎𝑙_ℎ𝑖𝑠𝑡𝑜𝑟𝑦_𝑙𝑒𝑛𝑔𝑡ℎ𝑠+= 𝐽𝑎𝑔𝑔𝑒𝑑𝐷𝑎𝑡𝑎.𝑛𝑢𝑚_𝑐𝑎𝑛𝑑𝑖𝑑𝑎𝑡𝑒𝑠
16:
AsyncKVCacheManager.CommitOnloadBufferToCache(𝐼𝑛𝑝𝑢𝑡𝐵𝑎𝑡𝑐ℎ.𝑢𝑠𝑒𝑟𝑠)
17: 8. HSTU Core Computation Loop: Execute Attention computation for each Transformer layer 𝑙.
18: for each layer 𝑙in HSTU model do
19:
8.1. Compute and Reshape QKV: 𝑄, 𝐾,𝑉←ComputeQKV(𝐽𝑎𝑔𝑔𝑒𝑑𝐷𝑎𝑡𝑎.𝑣𝑎𝑙𝑢𝑒𝑠)
20:
8.2. Append New KVs to Paged Cache: Store 𝐾,𝑉for the current input into the Paged KV Cache.
21:
𝑎𝑝𝑝𝑒𝑛𝑑_𝑘𝑣𝑐𝑎𝑐ℎ𝑒(K, V, 𝐾𝑉𝐶𝑎𝑐ℎ𝑒𝑀𝑒𝑡𝑎𝑑𝑎𝑡𝑎.position, 𝐾𝑉𝐶𝑎𝑐ℎ𝑒𝑀𝑒𝑡𝑎𝑑𝑎𝑡𝑎.offsets,
22:
𝐾𝑉𝐶𝑎𝑐ℎ𝑒𝑀𝑒𝑡𝑎𝑑𝑎𝑡𝑎.indices/indptr/last_page_lens)
23:
8.3. Implicit Sync for Historical KVs (Critical): Implicitly wait for the historical KV data specific to layer 𝑙to be fully loaded
from the onload buffer into the paged cache. This synchronization is managed by the layer’s KVOnloadHandle.
24:
8.4. Compute Attention Scores: 𝑂𝑢𝑡𝑝𝑢𝑡𝑉𝑎𝑙𝑢𝑒𝑠←HSTUAttention(𝑄, 𝐾,𝑉)
25:
8.5. Fuse and Feed-Forward: 𝐽𝑎𝑔𝑔𝑒𝑑𝐷𝑎𝑡𝑎.𝑣𝑎𝑙𝑢𝑒𝑠←PostAttentionProcess(𝑂𝑢𝑡𝑝𝑢𝑡𝑉𝑎𝑙𝑢𝑒𝑠)
26: end for
27: 9. Asynchronously Offload KVs: Background save the updated KV cache to host memory.
28:
AsyncKVCacheManager.SubmitOffloadAsync(𝐾𝑉𝐶𝑎𝑐ℎ𝑒𝑀𝑒𝑡𝑎𝑑𝑎𝑡𝑎)
29: 10. Final Outputs: Finalize outputs and compute final ranking logits.
30:
𝐻𝑆𝑇𝑈𝑂𝑢𝑡←HSTUBlock.postprocessor(𝐽𝑎𝑔𝑔𝑒𝑑𝐷𝑎𝑡𝑎.𝑣𝑎𝑙𝑢𝑒𝑠)
31:
𝐹𝑖𝑛𝑎𝑙𝐿𝑜𝑔𝑖𝑡𝑠←MLP(𝐻𝑆𝑇𝑈𝑂𝑢𝑡)
32: return 𝑂𝑢𝑡𝑝𝑢𝑡𝐿𝑜𝑔𝑖𝑡𝑠: (𝐹𝑖𝑛𝑎𝑙𝐿𝑜𝑔𝑖𝑡𝑠)


MTServe: Efficient Serving for Generative Recommendation Models with Hierarchical Caches
Conference acronym ’XX, June 03–05, 2018, Woodstock, NY
Table 5: Detailed latency (ms) and hit ratio for a 4-layer HSTU Model (𝐿= 4) on KuaiRand-1K.
Batch Size
BS=1
BS=4
BS=8
Method
Recomp.
GPU-Only
MTServe
Recomp.
GPU-Only
MTServe
Recomp.
GPU-Only
MTServe
Step 1-2. Prepare Metadata
–
0.1
0.1
–
0.1
0.1
–
0.1
0.1
Step 3. Strip Tokens
–
0.4
0.5
–
0.4
0.5
–
0.5
0.6
Step 4. Embedding
2.2
1.2
1.2
1.5
1.3
1.3
1.9
1.5
1.3
Step 5. Data Layout
1.9
1.6
1.6
3.4
2.4
2.5
5.7
3.6
3.3
Step 6. Await Metadata
–
0.1
0.1
–
0.1
0.1
–
0.1
0.1
Step 7. Update Metadata
–
0.05
0.1
–
0.05
0.2
–
0.05
0.4
Step 8. HSTU Inference
16.7
6.9
5.1
31.9
18.7
11.3
64.1
33.4
20.4
Step 9. Offload KV
–
–
0.02
–
–
0.03
–
–
0.03
Step 10. Postprocess
0.5
0.5
0.5
0.6
0.5
0.6
0.7
0.6
0.7
Total Latency (ms)
21.2
10.8
9.2
37.4
23.7
16.7
72.4
39.9
27.0
Speedup vs. Recomp.
1.00×
1.96×
2.30×
1.00×
1.58×
2.24×
1.00×
1.81×
2.68×
Speedup vs. GPU-Only
–
1.00×
1.17×
–
1.00×
1.42×
–
1.00×
1.48×
Total Hit Ratio
–
63.52%
98.56%
–
63.92%
98.57%
–
64.34%
98.59%
KuaiRand-1k. This dataset exhibits a high variance in sequence
lengths (ranging from 1 to 20,000 tokens), representing a natural
distribution of user behaviors. It is used to evaluate the system’s
adaptability across different workloads.
MT Dataset. The MT dataset is a production trace from Meituan.
As shown in Table 4, we specifically filtered this dataset to focus
on users with long-history interactions (4,000–6,000 tokens). By
eliminating short-sequence noise, the MT dataset provides a sta-
ble environment to assess the performance of MTServe under
sustained memory pressure.
C
Detailed Memory Footprint Analysis
This section details the GPU memory allocation for MTServe dur-
ing active inference (𝐵= 8, 𝐿𝑚𝑎𝑥= 40, 008) using bfloat16 preci-
sion. The total peak footprint of 41.67 GiB (42,671 MiB), primarily
driven by the persistent KV cache and the pre-allocated inference
workbenches.
C.1
Persistent KV Cache Storage (∼24.89 GiB)
This component represents the historical user state retained for
cross-request reuse. It is pre-allocated as a unified cache_table
tensor with the shape [𝐿, (𝑁𝑝+ 𝑁𝑜), 2,𝑆𝑝𝑎𝑔𝑒, 𝐻, 𝐷], where 𝐿= 8,
𝑆𝑝𝑎𝑔𝑒= 32, 𝐻= 4, and 𝐷= 128. The allocation comprises two
functional regions:
• Primary Cache (𝑁𝑝): A fixed pool of 40,960 pages reserved for
active users.
• Onload Buffer (𝑁𝑜): The staging area capacity is determined by
the maximum tokens per batch to ensure all incoming data can
be accommodated: 𝑁𝑜= ⌈(𝐵× 𝐿𝑚𝑎𝑥)/𝑆𝑝𝑎𝑔𝑒⌉= ⌈320, 064/32⌉≈
10, 008 pages.
The total allocation for these 50,968 pages (𝑁𝑝+ 𝑁𝑜) occupies ap-
proximately 25,484 MiB (8 × 50, 968 × 2 × 32 × 4 × 128 × 2 bytes).
C.2
Inference Workbench (∼14.65 GiB)
To eliminate dynamic memory management overhead, each of the
8 Transformer layers pre-allocates a dedicated "workbench" for
Table 6: End-to-end latency across different GPU Primary
Cache capacities (BS=8). Reference Recompute latency: 143.6
ms.
Primary Cache
(#Blocks)
VRAM
(approx.)
Total Latency
(ms)
20,480
10 GB
84.7
30,720
15 GB
58.9
40,960
20 GB
47.3
51,200
25 GB
41.3
61,440
30 GB
37.0
intermediate activations. The size is governed by the peak token
capacity 𝑇𝑚𝑎𝑥= 𝐵× 𝐿𝑚𝑎𝑥= 320, 064. Each layer reserves approxi-
mately 1,875 MiB, broken down as follows:
• UVQK Projection Buffer (1,250 MiB): Stores the intermediate
𝑈,𝑉,𝑄, 𝐾projections. With a hidden dimension of 128 per head
and 4 heads, this requires 𝑇𝑚𝑎𝑥× (128 × 4 × 4) × 2 ≈1, 250 MiB.
• Output Buffer (625 MiB): Stores the activation outputs of the
attention and FFN blocks, requiring 𝑇𝑚𝑎𝑥× 1024 × 2 ≈625 MiB.
Across all 8 layers, this workbench occupies a total of 15,000 MiB.
C.3
Summary
The remaining memory (∼2,187 MiB) is occupied by static model
weights and miscellaneous system buffers. This analysis confirms
that the KV cache and the layer-wise workbench are the dominant
memory consumers. By virtualizing the KV cache via host RAM, MT-
Serve effectively caps the persistent state’s GPU footprint, ensuring
that sufficient memory remains available required by long-sequence
generative models.


Conference acronym ’XX, June 03–05, 2018, Woodstock, NY
Wang et al.
D
Extended Experimental Results
D.1
Performance on Smaller Model Workload
To evaluate the adaptability of MTServe across different model
scales, we conduct additional experiments on a smaller HSTU vari-
ant with 4 layers (𝐿= 4). This setup reduces computational intensity,
allowing us to observe system efficiency when the computation-to-
I/O ratio is lower.
Table 5 presents the detailed latency breakdown and hit ratios.
Similar to the observations in the 8-layer model, MTServe (MT-
Serve) maintains a significant performance lead over both GPU-
Only and Recompute baselines. At BS=8, MTServe achieves a total
latency of 27.0 ms, representing a 2.68× speedup over recomputa-
tion. The consistency of the Total Hit Ratio (∼98.6%) across model
scales further validates that our tiered storage effectively virtualizes
GPU memory regardless of the specific model depth.
D.2
Sensitivity Analysis of GPU Cache Capacity
Table 6 provides a concise comparison of the system’s performance
under various GPU cache capacities. We observe a clear trade-off:
while increasing the VRAM footprint to 30 GB minimizes latency
to 37.0 ms, the system remains highly effective even at a 10 GB
limit, highlighting the flexibility of our hierarchical storage design.
E
Related Work
Generative Recommendation Models (GRMs). The paradigm of
recommendation systems has significantly evolved in recent years.
While deep learning-based methods [3, 4, 9, 22, 28, 29, 38, 39] dom-
inated for nearly a decade, they often face limitations in scalability
and expressive power. The rise of large language models has ignited
a shift towards generative recommendation [17, 23, 34]. This novel
paradigm re-frames recommendation as a sequence transduction
problem, leveraging the models’ profound semantic understanding
and open-ended generation capability to directly produce recom-
mendations, explanations, or personalized content, thereby aiming
for more expressive, unified, and user-centric systems.
Systems for GRMs. Recently, there has been a continuous emer-
gence of generative recommendation systems in the industry, cover-
ing both training and inference optimizations [1, 5–8, 10, 11, 13, 15,
16, 18, 20, 21, 24, 27, 30–33, 37, 40]. For instance, OneRec [6] focuses
on single-stage generative recommendation by adopting an MoE
architecture and an Iterative Preference Alignment strategy. MT-
GenRec [30] leverages dynamic embedding tables, automated table
merging, and two-stage ID deduplication to enhance the scalability
of industrial models. Unlike these previous systems, MTServe iden-
tifies the unique optimization potential in the user-side KV cache
and employs hierarchical storage and asynchronous pipelining to
effectively improve inference performance.
Received 20 February 2007; revised 12 March 2009; accepted 5 June 2009
