Break the Inaccessible Boundary: Distilling Post-Conversion
Content for User Retention Modeling
Tianbao Ma*, Ruochen Yang*, Chengen Li, Yuexin Shi, Jiangxia Cao†,
Linxun Chen, Zhaojie Liu, Yanan Niu, Han Li and Kun Gai
Kuaishou Technology, Beijing, China
{matianbao, yangruochen, lichengen, shiyuexin, caojiangxia, chenxi36, zhaotianxing, niuyanan, lihan08}@kuaishou.com,
gai.kun@qq.com
Abstract
User retention is a key metric to measure long-term engagement
in modern platforms. In real-time bidding (RTB) advertising sys-
tem for user re-engagement, the retention model is required to
predict future revisit probability at bidding time, before the user
converts and consumes any content. Although post-conversion
content, termed Onboarding Content, provides highly informa-
tive signals for retention prediction, directly using it in training
causes severe feature leakage and creates a gap between train-
ing and serving. To address this issue, we propose OCARM, a
two-stage distillation-aligned framework for Onboarding Content
Augmented Retention Modeling, enabling the model to implicitly
capture future content using only observable features during infer-
ence. In the first stage, we deliberately expose onboarding content
to train a hierarchical encoder that produces teacher representa-
tions. In the second stage, a user encoder is aligned with the frozen
teacher through distillation, allowing the model to approximate the
inaccessible onboarding signals without leakage. Extensive offline
experiments and online A/B tests demonstrate that our framework
achieves consistent improvements in a real-world growth scenario.
CCS Concepts
• Information systems →Recommender systems.
Keywords
Recommender systems, Retention Modeling, Feature Leakage
1
Introduction
User retention serves as a critical metric for assessing long-term
user engagement, capturing the sustained value of user-platform
interactions and representing a core optimization objective in mod-
ern recommender systems [7] and user growth scenarios [1]. Unlike
immediate short-term feedback signals such as clicks and stays, re-
tention more accurately reflects users’ overall satisfaction and value
perception, indicating whether a platform can consistently deliver
sufficient value to drive sustained revisits and realize a positive
return on marketing investment. Consequently, in real-time bid-
ding (RTB) advertising systems designed for user re-engagement,
the predictive accuracy of retention prediction directly determines
the decisions regarding bidding strategies, audience targeting and
budget allocation, ultimately influencing the conversion efficiency
and incremental returns of the overall campaign.
Optimizing retention modeling has emerged as a pivotal chal-
lenge in industrial user growth, with increasing research in recent
* Equal Contributions, Jiangxia Cao is the corresponding author.
Outside
Inside
Conversion
Click
Ad Delivery
Onboarding Content
Retention
RTB System
Recommender System
❌
Inaccessibility
Figure 1: The journey of user retention, where bidding deci-
sion is made prior to conversion, and the onboarding content
is inaccessible at this time.
years [2, 6, 8, 9]. Despite diverse technical approaches, existing
methods largely share the same idea, which is to enhance long-
term retention by optimizing recommendation policies to deliver
more relevant and engaging content. These approaches are predom-
inantly deployed in the post-acquisition phase, where users have
already entered the platform and their interactions are managed by
recommendation systems. In this setting, the platform possesses
abundant prior user profiles and behavior contexts, leveraging them
as the input features for the model to optimize retention targets.
However, in the scenarios of user re-engagement driven by ad-
vertisements, this optimization process undergoes a fundamental
difference due to the inaccessibility of information. As shown in
Figure 1, the retention prediction model included in RTB system
operates at the bidding stage. At this upstream growth decision
point, the system is required to forecast a user’s subsequent revisit
probability and retention trajectory without entering the platform
or consuming any content. The user journey proceeds through ad
delivery, conversion (click to open app), and after which the user be-
gins to interact with in-app content. We define the post-conversion
content consumption experience, that is, the videos watched or
the interactions performed, as the Onboarding Content. Conse-
quently, a temporal inaccessibility boundary naturally emerges at
the conversion node. Information to the left of this boundary, in-
cluding static user profiles, historical behavior sequences and ad
context, is fully observable at decision time. While to the right,
encompassing the onboarding content and its derived interaction
feedback, constitutes unobserved future signals that are strictly
inaccessible during the bidding stage.
Notably, the onboarding content on the future side of this bound-
ary carries exceptionally powerful predictive signals for retention.
Consistent with prior work that incorporates such content as the
vehicle for observational inputs or reward features in retention
arXiv:2604.25839v1  [cs.IR]  28 Apr 2026


Conference acronym ’XX, June 03–05, 2018, Woodstock, NY
Tianbao Ma*, Ruochen Yang*, Chengen Li, Yuexin Shi, Jiangxia Cao†,
Linxun Chen, Zhaojie Liu, Yanan Niu, Han Li and Kun Gai
prediction, we conduct a feature leakage experiment by deliber-
ately injecting onboarding content into training, and observe a
substantial AUC gain (Section 3.2). This confirms that the content
user experiences after returning exerts a strong predictive influ-
ence on their subsequent revisit [3]. However, precisely due to the
high information density and strong posterior correlation of this
signal, directly incorporating it into training induces severe feature
leakage. The model learns to rely on future signals that are sys-
tematically absent during inference, resulting in an irreconcilable
distribution gap between training and serving.
Consequently, the core challenge lies in bridging the informa-
tion barrier between growth system and recommendation system,
that is, enabling downstream content supply to inversely guide up-
stream bidding and conversion decisions. A natural intuition is to
feed user features into the recommendation model at bidding time
to predict pseudo labels for potential content interactions. How-
ever, preference mismatch and the prohibitive cost under real-time
bidding constraints prevents the acquisition of explicit content.
Nevertheless, we observe that although the exact onboarding
content remains unknown at bidding time, user’s static profiles
and historical preferences implicitly constrain the distribution of
content consuming after re-engaging. This constraint arises since
the onboarding content recommendation heavily depend on the
same observable priors either. Therefore, learning a mapping from
observable user features into the latent space of onboarding content
representations allows the model to approximate feature interac-
tions, without requiring direct access to unobserved information.
To this end, we propose a two-stage distillation-aligned frame-
work OCARM for Onboarding Content Augmented Retention
Modeling, enabling the retention model to implicitly perceive fu-
ture consumed content at inference time without feature leakage,
thus providing high-quality signals for model optimization. In the
first stage, we intentionally allow feature leakage during training by
jointly encoding future interaction sequence logs together with the
retention model inputs, and train an onboarding content encoder
to produce teacher representations. The encoder employs hierarchi-
cal attention to compress sequential content representations while
capturing both intra-day and inter-day temporal causality. In the
second stage, a user encoder is trained to align with the frozen on-
boarding content representations via distillation objective, thereby
approximating unobserved future features. Therefore, at inference
time, the model requires only observable features for informative
retention prediction for bidding decisions.
We conduct extensive offline experiments to evaluate the ef-
fectiveness of onboarding content distillation in bridging growth
system and recommendation system. The A/B tests also demon-
strate the value of our approach in a real growth scenario.
2
Methodology
As the overview depicted in Figure 2, by deliberately leaking the
onboarding content and encoding to obtain distilled signals, we
align the user representation and enable informative inference.
2.1
Preliminary
At bidding time, the observable user-side features include the user
profile 𝑥𝑢and behavioral sequences, such as historical interac-
tions 𝑥(𝑖)
𝑠
and ad contexts 𝑥(𝑎)
𝑠
. In contrast, the onboarding content
sequence is unavailable at bidding time. We denote it by 𝑥𝑐=
{𝑣0, 𝑣1, . . . , 𝑣𝑛}, spanning up to 𝐷days, where 𝑣𝑖∈𝑥𝑐corresponds
to an item interacted with by user 𝑢after conversion.
The prediction target 𝑦is defined as the revisit frequency LT_d
of a user over the next 𝑑days. Therefore the retention prediction
task at serving time can be formulated as the conditional proba-
bility 𝑝(𝑦|𝑥𝑢), since 𝑥𝑢is the only information available for online
inference before conversions. However, during training, the se-
quence of onboarding content 𝑥𝑐is accessible and can be leveraged
as auxiliary information for retention modeling learning.
2.2
Onboarding Content Leakage Encoding
In the first stage, we aim to obtain high-quality onboarding content
representations as supervision signals for subsequent distillation.
To this end, we deliberately leak such information during training
to learn the onboarding content encoder.
Hierarchical Attention Encoder (HAE). Users may interact
with items for multiple days after conversion, yielding long engage-
ment sequences with hundreds of interactions. The raw onboard-
ing content sequence 𝑥𝑐may span multiple days with hundreds of
interactions. While such sequence reveals temporal evolution of
user engagement, it also presents modeling and compression chal-
lenges. Notably, the sequence is inherently hierarchical, consisting
of fine-grained interaction patterns within each day and higher-
level behavioral evolution across days. To capture this structure,
we adopt a two-level hierarchical attention encoder that models
both intra-day dependencies and inter-day dynamics.
Specifically, we split the onboarding content sequence by cal-
endar day 𝑑∈{1, . . . , 𝐷}, take the first 𝑁interactions of each day
and embed them into a sequence of item representations H(𝑑) =
{ℎ(𝑑)
0 , . . . ,ℎ(𝑑)
𝑁}. Then a cross-attention layer uses the user profile
embedding 𝑥𝑢as the query, with the item representations as keys
and values:
𝑠(𝑑) = CrossAttn(𝑥𝑢, H(𝑑), H(𝑑)).
(1)
Thus, we achieve the focused compression within the single day
and obtain a compact semantic representation 𝑠(𝑑).
The day-level representation sequence {𝑠(1), . . . ,𝑠(𝐷)} are then
fed into a causal self-attention layer. By introducing a causal mask,
each day is allowed to attend only to current and preceding repre-
sentations, enabling the model to capture temporal dependencies
across days without accessing future information:
˜𝑠(1), . . . , ˜𝑠(𝐷) = CausalSelfAttn(𝑠(1), . . . ,𝑠(𝐷)).
(2)
This causal structure prevents future leakage and preserves the
chronological semantics of engagement evolution, since representa-
tions of earlier days are not influenced by subsequent interactions.
Based on the resulting sequence, we use the representation of 𝑑
day ˜𝑠(𝑑) for the LT_d prediction task (e.g., ˜𝑠(1) for LT1 and ˜𝑠(7) for
LT7), as it provides a compact summary of the user’s engagement
history up to this day.
Joint Training. The onboarding content embedding after MLP
projecting 𝑒𝑐= MLP(˜𝑠) is concatenated with the original retention


Kuaishou Tech
Conference acronym ’XX, June 03–05, 2018, Woodstock, NY
+
Day 1
…
Day 2
Day D
Cross Attention
Cross Attention
Cross Attention
Causal Self Attention
…
…
MLP
MLP
Retention Model !
Intra-day
Inter-day
…
Q-Former
+
TaskTower
TaskTower
User Profile
Behavior Sequences
…
Feature Leakage
Feature Leakage
Onboarding Content 
q
k/v
Concat
HAE
SFE
…
LT1
LT_D
…
Onboarding Content 
Embedding Layer !
HAE !
User Profile
Accessible Feature
Behavior Sequences
y!"#
y!"_%
Retention Model !
User Profile
Behavior Sequences
Onboarding Content 
Embedding Layer !
y!"#
y!"_%
HAE ❄
SFE !
Alignment Loss
Retention Model ❄
User Profile
Behavior Sequences
Embedding Layer ❄
y!"#
y!"_%
SFE ❄
Stop-
gradient
User Profile
Accessible Feature
+
Q-Former
Concat
Concat
LT1
LT_D
Historical 
Interactions
Ad
Contexts
Training Stage 1
Training Stage 2
Inference
Figure 2: Overview of the proposed framework OCARM. In Stage 1, HAE learns teacher representations from deliberately
leaked onboarding content. In Stage 2, SFE is trained to align with the frozen teacher through distillation based on accessible
user-side features. During inference, only SFE is activated for retention prediction without feature leakage.
model’s features, with the whole framework is jointly optimized
under the retention prediction objective:
L𝑆𝑡𝑎𝑔𝑒1 = BCE(𝑓𝑟𝑒𝑡𝑒𝑛𝑡𝑖𝑜𝑛([𝑥𝑢;𝑒𝑐]),𝑦),
(3)
where 𝑓𝑟𝑒𝑡𝑒𝑛𝑡𝑖𝑜𝑛(·) is the retention model and [; ] denotes concatena-
tion. Such end-to-end training encourages the learned onboarding
content representation to better align with the retention task, en-
suring the retention model’s awareness of the onboarding content.
2.3
User Representation Distillation Alignment
In the second stage, we aim to train a user encoder, which maps ob-
servable user features to a user representation that approximates the
onboarding content representation. Thus we froze the onboarding
content encoder and align user representation through distillation.
Sequence Fusion Encoder (SFE). Besides the user profile 𝑥𝑢,
the observable user features also include multiple heterogeneous
behavior sequences, such as historical interactions 𝑥(𝑖)
𝑠
and ad con-
texts 𝑥(𝑎)
𝑠
. However, considering that the training sample is a re-
engaged user, whose historical interactions are far removed from
the bidding time, thus exhibiting severe temporal staleness. More-
over, ad contexts are influenced by exposure and delivery mecha-
nisms, which may carry limited personalized intent. We therefore
use the user profile as a unified anchor of user specific preference
and concatenate with each item embedding 𝑒(𝑚)
𝑗
of the heteroge-
neous sequence 𝑥(𝑚)
𝑠
, where 𝑚∈{𝑖,𝑎, . . . }. Consequently, we have
the user conditioned representation sequence:
H(𝑚) = {ℎ(𝑚)
0
, . . . ,ℎ(𝑚)
𝑛
}, 𝑤ℎ𝑒𝑟𝑒ℎ(𝑚)
𝑗
= [𝑒(𝑚)
𝑗
;𝑥𝑢].
(4)
We then use a small set of 𝐾learnable query tokens together
with sequence-specific Q-Former [5] modules to compress multiple
variable-length behavior sequences into fixed-length user interest
representations:
𝑠(𝑚) = Q-Former(H(𝑚)).
(5)
In this way, heterogeneous sequences are mapped into a unified
representation space. We then integrate the user-side features and
construct task-specific towers for retention prediction over different
horizons. Each tower consisting of a feature interaction layer and
a projection head to produce a user representation tailored to the
retention task:
𝑒𝑢= TaskTower([𝑥𝑢;𝑠(𝑚)]).
(6)
Distillation Alignment. To achieve an approximate estimation
of the invisible information, we adopt distillation to align user
representation with onboarding content representation. Concretely,
for each task 𝑡, the output of the onboarding content encoder 𝑒(𝑘)
𝑐
from the former stage serves as the teacher signal, while that of
the user encoder 𝑒(𝑘)
𝑢
serves as the student representation. We then
minimize the representation gap measured by a similarity-based
loss L𝑠𝑖𝑚(e.g., cosine similarity loss):
L𝑎𝑙𝑖𝑔𝑛=
∑︁
𝑡∈Task
L𝑠𝑖𝑚(𝑒(𝑡)
𝑢, sg(𝑒(𝑡)
𝑐)),
(7)
where sg(·) denotes the stop-gradient operator to stabilize the dis-
tillation target and prevent the collapse of the representation.
To ensure the representation alignment remains in service of the
retention objective and preserves the stability of the core task, we


Conference acronym ’XX, June 03–05, 2018, Woodstock, NY
Tianbao Ma*, Ruochen Yang*, Chengen Li, Yuexin Shi, Jiangxia Cao†,
Linxun Chen, Zhaojie Liu, Yanan Niu, Han Li and Kun Gai
Table 1: Overall performance of the model with different
training stage. The performance of the full model is bold,
and the upper bound is underline.
Method
LT1
LT7
AUC
GAUC
AUC
GAUC
Base
0.7297
0.7227
0.6903
0.6909
OCARM
w/ Stage 1 (Upper Bound)
0.7468
0.7371
0.7002
0.7007
w/ Stage 2
0.6709
0.6719
0.6430
0.6435
w/ Stage 1 + 2 (Full)
0.7369
0.7311
0.6949
0.6957
Table 2: Performance gains over the base model of several
variants with different encoder architecture.
Variant
Content Encoder
User Encoder
ΔAUC (%)
LT1
LT7
Base
-
-
-
-
Variant 1
MLP
MLP
+0.35
+0.23
Variant 2
HAE
MLP
+0.56
+0.32
Variant 3
HAE
SFE
+0.72
+0.46
further combine the aligned user representation with the retention
model’s features and jointly optimize:
L𝑆𝑡𝑎𝑔𝑒2 = BCE(𝑓𝑟𝑒𝑡𝑒𝑛𝑡𝑖𝑜𝑛([𝑥𝑢;𝑒𝑢]),𝑦) + 𝜆L𝑎𝑙𝑖𝑔𝑛.
(8)
2.4
Inference
During inference, the framework relies only on the main reten-
tion model 𝑓𝑟𝑒𝑡𝑒𝑛𝑡𝑖𝑜𝑛(·) and the latent representation of onboarding
content estimated by the user encoder 𝑔𝑢(·):
ˆ𝑦= 𝑓𝑟𝑒𝑡𝑒𝑛𝑡𝑖𝑜𝑛([𝑥𝑢;𝑔𝑢(𝑥𝑢)]),
(9)
while the onboarding content encoder is discarded after training.
This design enables informative retention prediction without intro-
ducing feature leakage.
3
Experiments
3.1
Experimental Settings
To validate the effectiveness of our proposed framework, we con-
duct extensive offline and online experiments.
Dataset. We construct an industrial dataset collected from a
widely used short-video platform to conduct offline analysis. The
dataset includes millions of users and billions of interaction records.
Evaluation. We define two retention prediction tasks, LT1 and
LT7, corresponding to 1-day and 7-day engagement frequency re-
spectively. We follow the widely used evaluation metrics, AUC and
GAUC, to evaluate model performance.
Implementation. We ensure that all features are visible during
training, but onboarding content is unavailable during evaluation.
We adopt PPNET [4] as the framework of the retention model.
3.2
Offline Experiments Analysis
Table 1 summarizes the offline results with different training-stage
configurations. Using Stage 1 alone, where onboarding content is
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
Similarity
0.00
0.25
0.50
0.75
1.00
1.25
1.50
1.75
2.00
 AUC
Base
Variant 1
Variant 2
Variant 3
Upper Bound
(a) LT1
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
Similarity
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
 AUC
Base
Variant 1
Variant 2
Variant 3
Upper Bound
(b) LT7
Figure 3: Performance gains of retention task from increased
representation similarity.
Table 3: Online A/B test result of real industrial scenario.
Metric
Non-Uninstalled
Uninstalled
Re-engaged Devices
+20.468%
+34.430%
LT30
+11.548%
+22.179%
deliberately leaked during training, yields substantial gains over the
base model. This confirms that onboarding content provides strong
informative signals for retention prediction and can be viewed as an
upper bound. Using Stage 2 alone by jointly training HAE (without
stop-gradient) and SFE leads to significant performance degradation.
A possible reason is that, without a well-learned teacher represen-
tation, direct alignment introduces unstable optimization and even
representation collapse, thereby degrading alignment learning. In
comparison, the full two-stage framework first learns reliable on-
boarding content representations and then transfers them through
distillation, enabling the model to approximate inaccessible infor-
mation at inference time. As a result, it achieves clear improvements
over the base model while avoiding feature leakage, validating the
effectiveness of our two-stage distillation-aligned framework.
We further investigate the performance of several variants with
different encoder architectures:
• Variant 1 adopts MLP for content encoder and user encoder.
• Variant 2 replaces the MLP of content encoder with HAE.
• Variant 3 (Full) further replaces the user encoder with SFE.
Table 2 shows that stronger encoder architectures consistently
improve retention prediction, suggesting that better network de-
signs more effectively exploit onboarding content signals. Figure 3
further provides mechanistic evidence for this trend. As the simi-
larity between the user representation and the onboarding content
representation increases, the performance grows monotonically.
This suggests that variants with better alignment achieve larger
retention gains. Meanwhile, the remaining gap to the upper bound
indicates that approximating inaccessible information still leaves
substantial room for improvement and exploration.
3.3
Online A/B Test
We deploy our framework in the RTB system of a short-video
platform, with the result during multiple days of A/B test shown in
Table 3. The result shows that our method consistently improves
retention prediction across diverse user groups. Notably, the gains
are much larger for uninstalled users than for non-uninstalled users,
suggesting that our approach is particularly effective at identifying
the long-term value of hard-to-retain users. Overall, these findings


Kuaishou Tech
Conference acronym ’XX, June 03–05, 2018, Woodstock, NY
demonstrate the effectiveness and practical value of our method in
real industrial scenario.
4
Conclusion
In this paper, we identify the temporal visibility gap in RTB reten-
tion prediction, where the most predictive onboarding content is
inaccessible at bidding time. We then propose OCARM, a two-stage
distillation-aligned framework that first encodes leaked onboarding
content via hierarchical attention as teacher signals, then trains a
user encoder to approximate these representations from observ-
able features alone. Offline and online experiments on a real-world
short-video platform validate the effectiveness of our framework.
References
[1] Shifu Bie, Jiangxia Cao, Zixiao Luo, Yichuan Zou, Lei Liang, Lu Zhang, Linxun
Chen, Zhaojie Liu, Xuanping Li, Guorui Zhou, et al. 2026. PushGen: Push Notifi-
cations Generation with LLM. In Proceedings of the Nineteenth ACM International
Conference on Web Search and Data Mining. 1073–1077.
[2] Qingpeng Cai, Shuchang Liu, Xueliang Wang, Tianyou Zuo, Wentao Xie, Bin Yang,
Dong Zheng, Peng Jiang, and Kun Gai. 2023. Reinforcing user retention in a billion
scale short video recommender system. In Companion Proceedings of the ACM Web
Conference 2023. 421–426.
[3] Jiangxia Cao, Ruochen Yang, Xiang Chen, Changxin Lao, Yueyang Liu, Yusheng
Huang, Yuanhao Tian, Xiangyu Wu, Shuang Yang, Zhaojie Liu, et al. 2026. Fore-
sight Prediction Enhanced Live-Streaming Recommendation. In Proceedings of
the Nineteenth ACM International Conference on Web Search and Data Mining.
1078–1082.
[4] Jianxin Chang, Chenbin Zhang, Yiqun Hui, Dewei Leng, Yanan Niu, Yang Song,
and Kun Gai. 2023. Pepnet: Parameter and embedding personalized network
for infusing with personalized prior information. In Proceedings of the 29th ACM
SIGKDD Conference on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining. 3795–3804.
[5] Junnan Li, Dongxu Li, Silvio Savarese, and Steven Hoi. 2023. Blip-2: Bootstrapping
language-image pre-training with frozen image encoders and large language
models. In International conference on machine learning. PMLR, 19730–19742.
[6] Ziru Liu, Shuchang Liu, Bin Yang, Zhenghai Xue, Qingpeng Cai, Xiangyu Zhao,
Zijian Zhang, Lantao Hu, Han Li, and Peng Jiang. 2024. Modeling user reten-
tion through generative flow networks. In Proceedings of the 30th ACM SIGKDD
Conference on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining. 5497–5508.
[7] Shen Wang, Yusheng Huang, Ruochen Yang, Shuang Wen, Pengbo Xu, Jiangxia
Cao, Yueyang Liu, Kuo Cai, Chengcheng Guo, Shiyao Wang, et al. 2026. OneLive:
Dynamically Unified Generative Framework for Live-Streaming Recommendation.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2602.08612 (2026).
[8] Yuyan Wang, Jing Zhong, Yuxin Cui, Zhaohui Guo, Chuanqi Wei, Yanchen Wang,
and Zellux Wang. 2025. Not All Impressions Are Created Equal: Psychology-
Informed Retention Optimization for Short-Form Video Recommendation. In
Proceedings of the Nineteenth ACM Conference on Recommender Systems. 1022–
1025.
[9] Kesen Zhao, Lixin Zou, Xiangyu Zhao, Maolin Wang, and Dawei Yin. 2023. User
retention-oriented recommendation with decision transformer. In Proceedings of
the ACM Web Conference 2023. 1141–1149.
