Semantic IDs for Recommender Systems at Snapchat:
Use Cases, Technical Challenges, and Design Choices
Clark Mingxuan Ju∗, Tong Zhao∗, Leonardo Neves, Liam Collins, Bhuvesh Kumar, Jiwen Ren, Lili
Zhang, Wenfeng Zhuo, Vincent Zhang, Xiao Bai, Jinchao Li, Karthik Iyer, Zihao Fan, Yilun Xu,
Yiwen Chen, Peicheng Yu, Manish Malik, Neil Shah
{mju,tong,nshah}@snap.com
Snap Inc.
Santa Monica, CA, USA
Abstract
Effective item identifiers (IDs) are an important component for rec-
ommender systems (RecSys) in practice, and are commonly adopted
in many use cases such as retrieval and ranking. IDs can encode
collaborative filtering signals within training data, such that Rec-
Sys models can extrapolate during the inference and personalize
the prediction based on users’ behavioral histories. Recently, Se-
mantic IDs (SIDs) have become a trending paradigm for RecSys. In
comparison to the conventional atomic ID, an SID is an ordered
list of codes, derived from tokenizers such as residual quantization,
applied to semantic representations commonly extracted from foun-
dation models or collaborative signals. SIDs have drastically smaller
cardinality than the atomic counterpart, and induce semantic clus-
tering in the ID space. At Snapchat, we apply SIDs as auxiliary
features for ranking models, and also explore SIDs as additional
retrieval sources in different ML applications. In this paper, we dis-
cuss practical technical challenges we encountered while applying
SIDs, experiments we have conducted, and design choices we have
iterated to mitigate these challenges. Backed by promising offline
results on both internal data and academic benchmarks as well as
online A/B studies, SID variants have been launched in multiple
production models with positive metrics impact.
1
Introduction
The success of modern social media ecosystems hinges on recom-
mendation systems (RecSys) [8, 22, 25, 30], which are pivotal in per-
sonalizing users’ interactions across various applications, ranging
from short-form video feeds [5, 9, 11–13, 28] and friend recommen-
dation [16, 26, 29] and e-commerce platforms [2, 10, 25, 31]. RecSys
models are usually trained with user historical interaction data (e.g.
videos watched, merchandise purchased, friends made, etc.) so that
they can predict user’s future intents to facilitate better personal-
ization [15, 24]. Albeit different RecSys model architectures, one
important ingredient that broadly exists in these models is the use
of sparse identifiers (IDs), due to their strong capabilities in encod-
ing the historical interactions among users and items [4, 28, 32, 35].
Specifically, each user or item is assigned with an ID which serves
as a unique discrete token that is mapped to a learnable dense em-
bedding vector, compressing sparse interactions into continuous
latent embeddings capturing preferences or properties.
While effective, the reliance on per-user/item atomic IDs intro-
duces significant challenges. First, the sheer magnitude of users
∗Equal contributions.
Code is publicly available at https://github.com/snap-research/GRID.
and items leads to an explosion in parameter size, as massive em-
bedding tables are required to store distinct vectors for every en-
tity [24, 32, 36]. Second, ID-based approaches lack inductive support,
leaving the model unable to generate representations for new users
or items (the cold-start problem) that lack a pre-existing entry in
the embedding table [27, 37]. Third, these models struggle with
generalization due to the long-tail distribution of data; popular
IDs receive the vast majority of gradient updates, resulting in ro-
bust embeddings, while the representations for tail entities remain
under-trained and sub-optimal due to sparse supervision [14, 28].
To address these challenges, Rajput et al. [23] and Singh et al.
[28] proposed replacing conventional atomic IDs with Semantic
IDs (SIDs) – a strategy subsequently validated by practitioners
for its promising recommendation performance [3, 5, 11, 18, 19,
34]. Each SID consists of an ordered sequence of discrete tokens,
where the cardinality at each index is significantly lower than that
of traditional user or item IDs. This paradigm usually employs a
semantic or modality encoder (e.g., LLMs or VLM) paired with a
residual quantization tokenizer – such as RQ-VAE [17], VQ-VAE [6],
or Residual K-means [5] – to transform raw modality features (e.g.
image, text, audio) into discrete SIDs. Intuitively, SIDs function as a
semantic hashing mechanism that map semantically similar items
or users to discrete codes sharing common prefixes.
Given the potential of SIDs, we conducted extensive experiments
at Snapchat [11], exploring and identifying integration opportu-
nities as auxiliary features into ranking and retrieval stacks to
improve recommendation performance across diverse surfaces (e.g.,
ads, content, and growth). This approach enables RecSys models to
incorporate rich semantic signals without incurring the prohibitive
computational costs associated with high-dimensional dense em-
beddings. Furthermore, it promotes robust model generalization by
mitigating cold-start challenges and maximizing parameter utiliza-
tion, as the shared hierarchical structure of SIDs ensures that token
embeddings receive frequent gradient updates across the entire
item catalog. Beyond feature representation, we expanded our ex-
ploration to generative retrieval (GR) [11, 20, 23, 38], using SIDs as
the primary retrieval target in our content recommendation. Specif-
ically, we replaced atomic IDs in user behavior sequences with SIDs
and trained a sequential recommender to generate the SID token
sequences of future items based on historical interactions.
However, utilizing SIDs at an industrial scale presented technical
hurdles. First, we encountered severe codebook collapse during
the training of the RQ-VAE tokenizer, where the model utilized
only a fraction of the available codebook, severely limiting the se-
mantic expressiveness of the generated IDs. Second, utilizing SIDs
arXiv:2604.03949v1  [cs.IR]  5 Apr 2026


Conference’17, July 2017, Washington, DC, USA
Clark Mingxuan Ju and Tong Zhao et al.
as a retrieval source introduced complex SID-to-Item resolution
challenges, particularly in handling collisions and ensuring valid
decoding. In this work, we conduct extensive experiments on inter-
nal data at Snap and detail the specific architectural modifications
we implemented in RQ-VAE to effectively mitigate codebook col-
lapse. Furthermore, we present a comprehensive analysis of the
strategies and heuristics we developed for SID-to-Item resolution.
Our contributions are summarized as follows:
• Industrial-scale Evaluation: We present a large-scale appli-
cation of SIDs at Snapchat, demonstrating their efficacy across
diverse surfaces (e.g., ads, content, growth, and search), reporting
significant gains in both offline and offline metrics.
• Technical Improvements: We propose novel architectural mod-
ifications to the RQ-VAE tokenizer that effectively mitigate code-
book collapse. Additionally, we provide a detailed analysis of
SID-to-Item resolution strategies, offering practical heuristics to
ensure valid and accurate decoding during retrieval.
• Open-source Contribution: To facilitate reproducibility and fu-
ture research, we open-source our optimized model architecture
and training implementations for the broader community.
2
Preliminaries
This section introduces the notation for SIDs and details the formu-
lation of RQ-VAE [17], a widely adopted tokenizer for SID gener-
ation [9, 19, 21, 23]. We focus on RQ-VAE due to its differentiable
nature, which seamlessly supports customized extensions like multi-
embedding fusion, though we recognize that non-differentiable
approaches like RQ-Kmeans [5, 11] are also highly effective. Given
an item or user 𝑖with semantic features 𝑥𝑖, we use a modality
encoder 𝜙(·) : 𝑥→R𝑑(e.g., LLM, VLM, etc) to transform the
semantic feature into the hidden representation h𝑖∈R𝑑, where 𝑑
refers to the output dimension of 𝜙(·). RQ-VAE can be denoted as
RQ-VAE(·;𝜃) : R𝑑→{0, 1, . . . , 𝐾−1}𝐿, where 𝐾refers to the num-
ber of IDs in each layer, 𝐿refers to the total number of codebooks,
and 𝜃refers to model parameters including an encoder, a decoder,
and 𝐿codebooks. The encoder Enc(·) : R𝑑→R𝑛transforms h𝑖
into the intermediate embedding h0
𝑖(i.e., 0-th residual before the
residual quantization), where 𝑛refers to the hidden dimension of
RQ-VAE. Then, h0
𝑖is used to calculate the first SID code sid0 with
the first codebook C0 ∈R𝐾×𝑛, formulated as:
sid0 =
arg max
𝑐∈{0,1,...,𝐾−1}
h0
𝑖· C0[𝑐]

F ,with h0
𝑖= Enc 𝜙(𝑥𝑖),
(1)
where || · ||F is Frobenius norm and [·] is the indexing operation.
Following Equation (1), the later SID codes sid𝑙where 𝑙≥1, they
can be acquired by residual quantization as:
sid𝑙=
arg max
𝑐∈{0,1,...,𝐾−1}
h𝑙
𝑖· C𝑙[𝑐]

F,
(2)
where h𝑙
𝑖= h𝑙−1
𝑖
−C𝑙−1[sid𝑙−1]. Once all SID codes are derived, their
corresponding centroids are aggregated and fed into the decoder
for reconstruction, as the following:
ˆh𝑖= Dec

∑︁
𝑙∈{0,...,𝐿−1}
C𝑙[sid𝑙]

,
(3)
where Dec(·) : R𝑛→R𝑑is the decoder and ˆh𝑖∈R𝑑is the recon-
structed representation. RQ-VAE is supervised jointly by a recon-
struction loss and a commitment loss [17]; the former trains the
model to faithfully reconstruct the input data , and the latter pre-
vents codebooks from growing boundlessly and causing collapse.
3
Technical Challenges in Applying SIDs
While SID presents a promising paradigm for RecSys, application
in practice is non-trivial and entails multiple key challenges. Specif-
ically, these hurdles emerge both during the initial training of the
RQ-VAE tokenizer to create robust SIDs, and during the subsequent
application of these SIDs within downstream GR frameworks.
Challenge 1: Codebook Collapse. The first significant challenge
we encountered occurred during the training of the RQ-VAE tok-
enizer, manifesting as severe codebook collapse. In this scenario, the
model utilized only a fraction of the available codebook, assigning
items to only a few codes. This under-utilization severely limits
the semantic expressiveness of the generated IDs. Following the
quantization process formulated in Equation (1), the intermediate
hidden representations ℎ𝑙
𝑖are expected to map across a diverse
set of centroids within the codebook 𝐶𝑙. However, due to the im-
balanced training dynamics often observed in standard RQ-VAE
implementations [19, 39], a small subset of popular centroids re-
ceive the vast majority of gradient updates. Meanwhile, remaining
centroids are effectively “dead”. Because SIDs act as a semantic
hashing mechanism, an impoverished codebook limits the granular-
ity of the hashing, bottlenecking the model’s ability to accurately
differentiate between fine-grained item features.
We identified two design choices to mitigate collapse. Firstly,
we backpropagate through the entire codebook using the straight-
through estimator (STE) [1]. In the standard RQ-VAE formulation,
codebook optimization is inherently discrete due to the arg max
operation in Equation (1). As a result, during backprop, gradient
updates are exclusively applied to the specific codebook rows (cen-
troids) that are actively selected by the input representations. This
sparse update mechanism causes training to rely heavily on the
initial codebook state; poor initialization frequently leads to many
unselected, “dead” centroids which never receive gradient updates.
To address this, we apply STE to approximate the gradients through
quantization. Specifically, Equation (3) is modified as the following:
ˆh𝑖= Dec

∑︁
𝑙∈{0,...,𝐿−1}
C𝑙[sid𝑙]+sim(h𝑙
𝑖, C𝑙)·C𝑙−sg[sim(h𝑙
𝑖, C𝑙)·C𝑙]

,
where sim(h𝑙
𝑖, C𝑙) ∈R𝐾refers to the cosine similarities between
the residual at layer 𝑙and the entire codebook at layer 𝑙, and sg(·)
refers to the stop-gradient operation, which prevents encompassed
variables from contributing to the backprop graph. By utilizing
STE, the loss can backprop through the assignment mechanism,
effectively involving the entire codebook in updates. This promotes
continuous update of all codes and promotes more uniform utiliza-
tion of available codes, significantly reducing collapse risk.
The second choice we adopted to mitigate collapse is to learn
SIDs conditioned on multiple embedding sources. In industrial RecSys,
items rarely exist as single-modality entities; rather, they are charac-
terized by rich, heterogeneous features such as textual descriptions,
visual content, categorical metadata, etc. We observed relying on
a single embedding source (e.g. text) yields a more homogeneous
input distribution. This lack of variance exacerbates collapse, as
the RQ-VAE requires fewer centroids to adequately encode and re-
construct the input. Instead, we rely on an embedding input fusion
approach – specifically, we aggregate disparate pre-trained embed-
dings into a unified continuous representation before feeding them
into the tokenizer. Using a summation aggregation, the encoding


Semantic IDs for Recommender Systems at Snapchat: Use Cases, Technical Challenges, and Design Choices
Conference’17, July 2017, Washington, DC, USA
and decoding processes for an item 𝑖are formulated as:
h𝑖=
∑︁
𝑚∈𝑀
Enc𝑚(𝑥𝑚) and
ˆ
h𝑖,𝑚= Dec𝑚

∑︁
𝑙∈{0,...,𝐿−1}
C𝑙[sid𝑙]

.
By integrating multi-modal signals, the resulting input space ex-
hibits significantly higher variance and topological complexity. This
richer input distribution forces the quantization process to span a
wider manifold to minimize reconstruction loss.
Challenge 2: SID-to-Item Resolution. A second hurdle in prac-
tical SID use is the challenge of grounding in the context of GR,
which amounts to directly resolving a single item from a SID. Since
SIDs map semantically similar items or users to discrete codes with
common prefixes, where the cardinality of each codebook layer is
vastly smaller than atomic IDs, similar items often map to the exact
same discrete token sequence (collision). Resolving these collisions
and determining which specific item(s) within a shared code should
be retrieved or ranked requires additional disambiguation.
We found two helpful choices in managing this resolution prob-
lem. Firstly, we adopt a heuristic-based intra-code disambiguation.
Specifically, if a generated SID has multiple associated items, we
employ a secondary ranking mechanism based on domain-specific
heuristics. Instead of treating all items mapping to the SID as equally
relevant, we resolve an item by incorporating additional item-level
metadata during the retrieval phase. For example, in a video re-
trieval setting, we may leverage historical relevance metrics or
temporal features, e.g. cumulative view time or content freshness,
to prioritize higher-quality or more business-metric-relevant items.
This two-stage approach allows the generative model to identify
the correct semantic category (SID) while relying on lightweight
heuristics to pinpoint the most relevant items.
Secondly, we found it useful to prioritize retrieval depth over
breadth. During inference, an GR model outputs a set of candidate
SIDs via beam search or sampling. This introduces a practical trade-
off given a fixed retrieval budget: fetching a few items across many
different candidate SIDs (breadth) versus fetching many items from
a few top-ranked SIDs (depth). Through empirical evaluation, we
discovered that maximizing item yield from the top-ranked SIDs sig-
nificantly outperforms distributing the item budget across a larger
number of lower-ranked SIDs. This indicates that the model pos-
sesses high confidence and accuracy in its top-ranked predictions.
4
Experiments
To comprehensively evaluate the efficacy of SIDs for RecSys, we
conduct a series of offline and online experiments.
4.1
SID as Auxiliary Features
In this set of experiments, we investigate the performance of SIDs by
incorporating them as auxiliary categorical features within standard
ranking and retrieval architectures. The objective is to determine
whether the hierarchical, multimodal semantic priors captured by
SIDs can improve model generalization. Specifically, we applied
SIDs to multiple RecSys models at Snapchat, as the following:
• Ads Ranking. Ads are typically accompanied by textual meta-
data, such as descriptive titles, brand names, and category labels.
We utilize the Qwen-Embedding model [33] to encode these text
into embeddings, which are subsequently converted into SIDs.
Table 1: Offline improvements to AUCs when we SIDs are
incorporated as auxiliary input features to different rankers,
where a 0.01% gain is considered significant.
Metrics
Improvements
Ads Ranking
Swipe up (goal-based bidding)
+0.028%
Landing page view (goal-based bidding)
+0.035%
Dynamic Product Ads Ranking
Add to cart
+0.67%
Average improv. cross all heads
+0.24%
Table 2: Online improvements of launching GraphHash SID
as auxiliary feature in different rankers.
Ranker Models
metrics
online improv.
Find Friends
relevance
+1.77%, +4.90%
Friending Registration
neg. action
-5.13%, -3.17%
Display Name Search
feature use
+1.55%, +12.43%
This approach allows the ranking model to leverage rich semantic
information without the large overhead of logging and training
with raw, high-dimensional embeddings. As shown in Table 1,
adding SIDs improved the Swipe Up and Landing Page View
metrics (goal-based bidding) by 0.028% and 0.035%, respectively.
• Dynamic Product Ads (DPA) Ranking. DPA models encounter
a special challenge of rapid item ID churn due to constantly
updating advertiser catalogs. Following a similar pipeline, we use
an LLM to encode product metadata into embeddings, which are
then converted into SIDs. Demonstrated in Table 1, SIDs provided
even more substantial gains in this high-churn environment,
driving a +0.67% improvement in Add to Cart predictions and a
+0.24% average improvement across all heads.
• Friending and Search Ranking. In the context of user friend
recommendation and search, we deploy GraphHash [32] as a
unique form of SID learned directly from graph semantics, where
the underlying network topology is defined by friending user
interactions. By hierarchically clustering users into structural
communities, GraphHash compresses over 900M raw user IDs
into a condensed set of SIDs. As auxiliary features, GraphHash
SIDs enable the model to extrapolate collaborative filtering sig-
nals more effectively. Consequently, adding GraphHash SIDs has
yielded strong online improvements, as Table 2 shows, driving
meaningful gains in product metrics (e.g., Creator subscribe, re-
ciprocation rate, etc) and materially reducing negative friending
actions (e.g., friending blocks/deletes).
4.2
SIDs in Generative Retrieval
We also explore their efficacy as the primary target space for GR
within our content recommendation stack. In this paradigm, we
replace conventional atomic IDs in user behavior sequences with
SIDs and train a sequential recommender to autoregressively gen-
erate the SID sequences [11, 23]. We evaluate the performance
of this GR framework in our content retrieval stack and discuss
the practical design choices including heuristic-based intra-bucket
disambiguation and depth-prioritized fetching required to enable
collision resolution and higher-quality recommendations. Detailed
model architecture is described in our previous work [11].


Conference’17, July 2017, Washington, DC, USA
Clark Mingxuan Ju and Tong Zhao et al.
Table 3: Offline ranking-based metrics (R/N refer to re-
call/NDCG) when SIDs are used as direct retrieval in gen-
erative retrieval for short-form video recommendation.
Model Variant
R@5
R@10
N@5
N@10
Seq. Length = 120
Baseline
Seq. Length = 240
+13.7%
+8.3%
+8.2%
+6.5%
Seq. Length = 480
+31.5%
+16.7%
+26.5%
+22.2%
Table 4: Online improvements in A/B testing for short-form
video recommendation when SIDs are used as direct retrieval
sources with sequence length equal of 480.
Metrics
Improvements (%)
Random Item Mapping (10 per SID) from Top 100 SIDs
Short-form video view
Neutral
Random Item Mapping (100 per SID) from Top 10 SIDs
Short-form video view
+0.13%
Relevance-guided Mapping (100 per SID) from Top 10 SIDs
Short-form video view
+0.57%
Short-form video send
+2.54%
Short-form video share
+4.39%
Short-form video re-post
+3.55%
Table 5: Uniqueness of SIDs as well as their GR performance
on Amazon beauty dataset. A deduplicate token is appended
to ensure fair comparison across codebook shapes [23].
Codebook Shape
Uniqueness
Recall@10
1024 × 1024 × 1024
92.95%
6.1
512 × 512 × 512
91.79%
6.2
256 × 256 × 256
81.65%
6.1
128 × 128 × 128
70.58%
6.0
64 × 64 × 64
65.40%
5.8
As shown in Table 3, providing the sequential recommender
with longer user behavior sequences substantially boosts retrieval
accuracy (e.g., increasing the sequence length from a 120 baseline
to 480 yielded massive gains of +31.5% for R@5 and +26.5% for
N@5). Balancing infrastructure constraints, we stop at 480 and use
this variant as the launch candidate. Validated by promising offline
evaluation, we conducted A/B studies, as shown in Table 4. On-
line experiments in short-form video recommendations highlight
the critical importance of intra-bucket disambiguation strategies.
While random mapping from the top SIDs yielded marginal gains
(e.g., +0.13% for video views), utilizing an relevance-guided map-
ping strategy from the top 10 SIDs drove substantial increases in
high-intent user actions. Specifically, this heuristic-based approach
resulted in a +0.57% increase in views, a +2.54% increase in sends,
a +3.55% increase in re-posts, and a remarkable +4.39% increase in
short-form video shares in an online experiment.
4.3
SID Quality Evaluation: Is Uniqueness the
Golden Standard?
During the iterative development of SIDs, a significant challenge lies
in identifying a reliable, lightweight proxy to evaluate SID quality
Table 6: Uniqueness of SIDs on internal data when SIDs are
generated with different treatments.
Treatment
Uniqueness Improvement
Clip embedding with RQ-VAE
Baseline
+ RQ-VAE with STE
+ 83.4%
+ Multi-modal embedding
+ 23.7%
+ Audio embedding
+ 11.2%
+ Transcript embedding
+ 4.7%
prior to executing computationally expensive offline training and
online A/B testing. In existing literature, uniqueness – typically
defined as the ratio of unique used SIDs to the total number of items,
which inversely reflects the collision rate – is widely adopted as the
de facto golden standard for SID evaluation. Uniqueness inversely
reflects the collision rate; therefore, a collapsed codebook inherently
suffers from near-zero uniqueness. While our interventions are
necessary to rescue the model from this collapsed state by driving
uniqueness into a healthy range, we ask the question:
Is maximizing uniqueness indefinitely always beneficial?
To investigate this assumption, we analyzed the correlation be-
tween SID uniqueness and GR performance on the Amazon Beauty
dataset [7]. Our empirical findings reveal a nuanced, non-linear
relationship rather than a strict monotonic correlation. As shown
in Table 5, when SID uniqueness is very low, there is indeed a
strong positive correlation – resolving severe item collisions (tend-
ing towards collapse) directly aids the autoregressive model in
accurately distinguishing target items. However, once uniqueness
surpasses a certain threshold (empirically 70% for this experiment),
this correlation plateaus. Beyond this saturation point, aggressively
chasing higher uniqueness yields negligible additional performance
boosts. These results suggest a necessary re-evaluation of how we
measure SID quality. Uniqueness should not be evaluated as a gold
standard, but rather as a foundational sanity check against collapse
and baseline item distinguishability. Developing a highly predictive,
offline metric that accurately quantifies the optimal balance be-
tween semantic richness and item distinctiveness for downstream
applications remains an open question.
5
Conclusion
In this work, we detailed the large-scale deployment of SIDs across
Snapchat’s recommendation systems, demonstrating their success
as both auxiliary features and primary retrieval sources. To over-
come critical technical hurdles, we introduced architectural im-
provements to the RQ-VAE tokenizer – such as STE optimization
and multi-modal embedding fusion – to the mitigate codebook
collapse. Additionally, we addressed SID-to-item collisions during
inference using heuristic-based intra-bucket disambiguation. Sup-
ported by extensive offline and online A/B testing, these design
choices drove significant improvements in core business metrics.
Finally, our evaluation revealed that SID uniqueness should not be
viewed as the definitive golden standard for quality, underscoring
the need for future research into better offline metrics that better bal-
ance semantic richness with item distinctiveness. We open-sourced
our optimized model architectures, aiming to foster a continued
innovation within the broader recommender systems community.


Semantic IDs for Recommender Systems at Snapchat: Use Cases, Technical Challenges, and Design Choices
Conference’17, July 2017, Washington, DC, USA
6
Presenter Bio
Tong Zhao is a research scientist at Snap Inc. He obtained his Ph.D.
degree in Computer Science and Engineering at University of Notre
Dame and published at top-tier conferences in machine learning,
artificial intelligence, data mining, and natural language processing.
References
[1] Yoshua Bengio. 2013. Estimating or propagating gradients through stochastic
neurons. arXiv preprint arXiv:1305.2982 (2013).
[2] Ben Chen, Xian Guo, Siyuan Wang, Zihan Liang, Yue Lv, Yufei Ma, Xinlong Xiao,
Bowen Xue, Xuxin Zhang, Ying Yang, et al. 2025. Onesearch: A preliminary
exploration of the unified end-to-end generative framework for e-commerce
search. arXiv preprint arXiv:2509.03236 (2025).
[3] Runjin Chen, Mingxuan Ju, Ngoc Bui, Dimosthenis Antypas, Stanley Cai, Xi-
aopeng Wu, Leonardo Neves, Zhangyang Wang, Neil Shah, and Tong Zhao.
2024. Enhancing item tokenization for generative recommendation through
self-improvement. arXiv preprint arXiv:2412.17171 (2024).
[4] Heng-Tze Cheng, Levent Koc, Jeremiah Harmsen, Tal Shaked, Tushar Chandra,
Hrishi Aradhye, Glen Anderson, Greg Corrado, Wei Chai, Mustafa Ispir, et al.
2016. Wide & deep learning for recommender systems. In Proceedings of the 1st
workshop on deep learning for recommender systems. 7–10.
[5] Jiaxin Deng, Shiyao Wang, Kuo Cai, Lejian Ren, Qigen Hu, Weifeng Ding, Qiang
Luo, and Guorui Zhou. 2025. Onerec: Unifying retrieve and rank with generative
recommender and iterative preference alignment. arXiv preprint arXiv:2502.18965
(2025).
[6] Patrick Esser, Robin Rombach, and Bjorn Ommer. 2021. Taming transformers
for high-resolution image synthesis. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF conference on
computer vision and pattern recognition. 12873–12883.
[7] Shijie Geng, Shuchang Liu, Zuohui Fu, Yingqiang Ge, and Yongfeng Zhang. 2022.
Recommendation as language processing (rlp): A unified pretrain, personalized
prompt & predict paradigm (p5). In Proceedings of the 16th ACM Conference on
Recommender Systems. 299–315.
[8] Carlos A Gomez-Uribe and Neil Hunt. 2015. The netflix recommender system:
Algorithms, business value, and innovation. ACM Transactions on Management
Information Systems (TMIS) (2015).
[9] Ruining He, Lukasz Heldt, Lichan Hong, Raghunandan Keshavan, Shifan Mao,
Nikhil Mehta, Zhengyang Su, Alicia Tsai, Yueqi Wang, Shao-Chuan Wang, et al.
2025. Plum: Adapting pre-trained language models for industrial-scale generative
recommendations. arXiv preprint arXiv:2510.07784 (2025).
[10] Yupeng Hou, Jiacheng Li, Zhankui He, An Yan, Xiusi Chen, and Julian McAuley.
2024. Bridging Language and Items for Retrieval and Recommendation. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2403.03952 (2024).
[11] Clark Mingxuan Ju, Liam Collins, Leonardo Neves, Bhuvesh Kumar, Louis Yufeng
Wang, Tong Zhao, and Neil Shah. 2025. Generative Recommendation with Seman-
tic IDs: A Practitioner’s Handbook. In Proceedings of the 34th ACM International
Conference on Information and Knowledge Management. 6420–6425.
[12] Clark Mingxuan Ju, Leonardo Neves, Bhuvesh Kumar, Liam Collins, Tong Zhao,
Yuwei Qiu, Ching Dou, Sohail Nizam, Sen Yang, and Neil Shah. 2025. Revisiting
Self-Attention for Cross-Domain Sequential Recommendation. arXiv preprint
arXiv:YYYY.NNNNN (2025).
[13] Clark Mingxuan Ju, Leonardo Neves, Bhuvesh Kumar, Liam Collins, Tong Zhao,
Yuwei Qiu, Qing Dou, Yang Zhou, Sohail Nizam, Rengim Aykan Ozturk, et al.
2025. Learning universal user representations leveraging cross-domain user
intent at snapchat. In Proceedings of the 48th International ACM SIGIR Conference
on Research and Development in Information Retrieval. 4345–4349.
[14] Mingxuan Ju, William Shiao, Zhichun Guo, Yanfang Ye, Yozen Liu, Neil Shah, and
Tong Zhao. 2024. How does message passing improve collaborative filtering?
Advances in neural information processing systems 37 (2024), 8760–8784.
[15] Wang-Cheng Kang and Julian McAuley. 2018. Self-attentive sequential recom-
mendation. In 2018 IEEE international conference on data mining (ICDM). IEEE,
197–206.
[16] Matthew Kolodner, Mingxuan Ju, Zihao Fan, Tong Zhao, Elham Ghazizadeh,
Yan Wu, Neil Shah, and Yozen Liu. 2024. Robust Training Objectives Improve
Embedding-based Retrieval in Industrial Recommendation Systems. RobustRecSys
Workshop at RecSys (2024).
[17] Doyup Lee, Chiheon Kim, Saehoon Kim, Minsu Cho, and Wook-Shin Han. 2022.
Autoregressive image generation using residual quantization. In Proceedings of the
IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition. 11523–11532.
[18] Geon Lee, Bhuvesh Kumar, Mingxuan Ju, Tong Zhao, Kijung Shin, Neil Shah,
and Liam Collins. 2026. Sequential Data Augmentation for Generative Recom-
mendation. In Proceedings of the Nineteenth ACM International Conference on Web
Search and Data Mining. 303–312.
[19] Mingfu Liang, Yufei Li, Jay Xu, Kavosh Asadi, Xi Liu, Shuo Gu, Kaushik Rangadu-
rai, Frank Shyu, Shuaiwen Wang, Song Yang, et al. 2026. Generative Reasoning
Re-ranker. arXiv preprint arXiv:2602.07774 (2026).
[20] Jingzhe Liu, Liam Collins, Jiliang Tang, Tong Zhao, Neil Shah, and Clark Mingx-
uan Ju. 2025. Understanding generative recommendation with semantic ids from
a model-scaling view. arXiv preprint arXiv:2509.25522 (2025).
[21] Xinchen Luo, Jiangxia Cao, Tianyu Sun, Jinkai Yu, Rui Huang, Wei Yuan, Hezheng
Lin, Yichen Zheng, Shiyao Wang, Qigen Hu, et al. 2025. Qarm: Quantitative
alignment multi-modal recommendation at kuaishou. In Proceedings of the 34th
ACM International Conference on Information and Knowledge Management. 5915–
5922.
[22] Aditya Pal, Chantat Eksombatchai, Yitong Zhou, Bo Zhao, Charles Rosenberg,
and Jure Leskovec. 2020. Pinnersage: Multi-modal user embedding framework
for recommendations at pinterest. In Procs. of SIGKDD.
[23] Shashank Rajput, Nikhil Mehta, Anima Singh, Raghunandan Hulikal Keshavan,
Trung Vu, Lukasz Heldt, Lichan Hong, Yi Tay, Vinh Tran, Jonah Samost, et al.
2023. Recommender systems with generative retrieval. Advances in Neural
Information Processing Systems 36 (2023), 10299–10315.
[24] Steffen Rendle, Christoph Freudenthaler, Zeno Gantner, and Lars Schmidt-Thieme.
2009. BPR: Bayesian personalized ranking from implicit feedback. In UAI.
[25] J Ben Schafer, Joseph Konstan, and John Riedl. 1999. Recommender systems in
e-commerce. In Procs. of ACM conference on Electronic commerce.
[26] Jiahui Shi, Vivek Chaurasiya, Yozen Liu, Shubham Vij, Yan Wu, Satya Kanduri,
Neil Shah, Peicheng Yu, Nik Srivastava, Lei Shi, et al. 2023. Embedding Based
Retrieval in Friend Recommendation. In Proceedings of the 46th International
ACM SIGIR Conference on Research and Development in Information Retrieval.
3330–3334.
[27] William Shiao, Mingxuan Ju, Zhichun Guo, Xin Chen, Evangelos E Papalexakis,
Tong Zhao, Neil Shah, and Yozen Liu. 2025. Improving Out-of-Vocabulary Hashing
in Recommendation Systems. In Companion Proceedings of the ACM on Web
Conference 2025. 2521–2530.
[28] Anima Singh, Trung Vu, Nikhil Mehta, Raghunandan Keshavan, Maheswaran
Sathiamoorthy, Yilin Zheng, Lichan Hong, Lukasz Heldt, Li Wei, Devansh Tandon,
et al. 2024. Better generalization with semantic ids: A case study in ranking for
recommendations. In Proceedings of the 18th ACM Conference on Recommender
Systems. 1039–1044.
[29] Xianfeng Tang, Yozen Liu, Xinran He, Suhang Wang, and Neil Shah. 2022. Friend
story ranking with edge-contextual local graph convolutions. In Proceedings
of the Fifteenth ACM International Conference on Web Search and Data Mining.
1007–1015.
[30] Aaron Van den Oord, Sander Dieleman, and Benjamin Schrauwen. 2013. Deep
content-based music recommendation. In Procs. of NeurIPS.
[31] Ruoxi Wang, Rakesh Shivanna, Derek Cheng, Sagar Jain, Dong Lin, Lichan Hong,
and Ed Chi. 2021. Dcn v2: Improved deep & cross network and practical lessons
for web-scale learning to rank systems. In Procs. of WWW.
[32] Xinyi Wu, Donald Loveland, Runjin Chen, Yozen Liu, Xin Chen, Leonardo Neves,
Ali Jadbabaie, Mingxuan Ju, Neil Shah, and Tong Zhao. 2025. GraphHash: Graph
Clustering Enables Parameter Efficiency in Recommender Systems. In Proceedings
of the ACM on Web Conference 2025. 357–369.
[33] An Yang, Anfeng Li, Baosong Yang, Beichen Zhang, Binyuan Hui, Bo Zheng,
Bowen Yu, Chang Gao, Chengen Huang, Chenxu Lv, et al. 2025. Qwen3 technical
report. arXiv preprint arXiv:2505.09388 (2025).
[34] Liu Yang, Fabian Paischer, Kaveh Hassani, Jiacheng Li, Shuai Shao, Zhang Gabriel
Li, Yun He, Xue Feng, Nima Noorshams, Sem Park, et al. 2024. Unifying Gen-
erative and Dense Retrieval for Sequential Recommendation. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2411.18814 (2024).
[35] Zheng Yuan, Fajie Yuan, Yu Song, Youhua Li, Junchen Fu, Fei Yang, Yunzhu
Pan, and Yongxin Ni. 2023. Where to go next for recommender systems? id-
vs. modality-based recommender models revisited. In Proceedings of the 46th
International ACM SIGIR Conference on Research and Development in Information
Retrieval. 2639–2649.
[36] Caojin Zhang, Yicun Liu, Yuanpu Xie, Sofia Ira Ktena, Alykhan Tejani, Akshay
Gupta, Pranay Kumar Myana, Deepak Dilipkumar, Suvadip Paul, Ikuhiro Ihara,
et al. 2020. Model size reduction using frequency based double hashing for
recommender systems. In Proceedings of the 14th ACM Conference on Recommender
Systems. 521–526.
[37] Xiangyu Zhao, Maolin Wang, Xinjian Zhao, Jiansheng Li, Shucheng Zhou, Dawei
Yin, Qing Li, Jiliang Tang, and Ruocheng Guo. 2023. Embedding in recommender
systems: A survey. arXiv preprint arXiv:2310.18608 (2023).
[38] Jing Zhu, Mingxuan Ju, Yozen Liu, Danai Koutra, Neil Shah, and Tong Zhao. 2025.
Beyond unimodal boundaries: Generative recommendation with multimodal
semantics. arXiv preprint arXiv:2503.23333 (2025).
[39] Lei Zhu, Fangyun Wei, Yanye Lu, and Dong Chen. 2024. Scaling the codebook size
of vq-gan to 100,000 with a utilization rate of 99%. Advances in Neural Information
Processing Systems 37 (2024), 12612–12635.
